ALL OF US TO
ORDER GOOD EVENING AND WELCOME
TO THE TUESDAY APRIL 5TH 20 22
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION ON MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
WHICH IS AVAILABLE ONLINE.
MR. LUNNER, WILL YOU PLEASE
HELP US WITH THE ROLL CALL ITEM
NUMBER TWO?
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
COMMISSIONER ELSE HERE
COMMISSIONER BRANDELL,
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE,
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S HERE,
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE, COMMISSIONER DISH HERE,
COMMISSIONER HERE, COMMISSIONER
CLARK HERE COMMISSIONER WHICH
HERE FULL COMMISSION EXCELLENT
ITEM THREE IS APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER MOVE
THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH.
ANY DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
ALL IN FAVOR PLEASE RAISE A
HAND OR SAY YES THAT IS
UNANIMOUS.
THE MOTION CARRIES ITEM FOR OUR
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING WE HAVE IN OUR
PACKET THE MINUTES FROM THE
MARCH 15TH 2022 CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER GISH SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SAUVé ANY
DISCUSSION OR CORRECTIONS ON
THE MINUTES ALL IN FAVOR PLEASE
RAISE A HAND OR SAY YES THAT&apos;S
ALL OF THE HANDS SO THAT MOTION
CARRIES NEXT ITEM FIVE ARE ALL
OF THE REPORTS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION AND CITY COUNCIL
COMMISSIONER DISH, COULD YOU
START OFF?
&gt;&gt; I HAVE AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT
OF GOOD NEWS .
&gt;&gt; SO THIS ONE IS PAST YES.
&gt;&gt; THREE FIFTY S FIFTH IS
PASSED WITH A CHANGE TO THE I
CAN&apos;T REMEMBER WHAT THEY&apos;RE
CALLED BUT THEY&apos;RE THE
SUPPLEMENTAL USE REGULATIONS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT THAT
REQUIRE THAT ALL OF THE
AFFORDABLE UNITS BE ON SITE AND
THERE IS A I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T KNOW
THERE&apos;S NOT REALLY A PLAN BUT
THERE&apos;S AN UNDERSTANDING THAT
IN ORDER TO TAKE AT LEAST ONE
LITTLE PIECE OF THIS COMPLEX
PUZZLE OUT OF THE EQUATION, IT
WOULD BE SEEN AS FINE AND DANDY
IF THE CITY SOLD THE SITE TO
THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION AND ALLOWED US TO
RETIRE THE DEBT SO THAT THAT
WAY THERE&apos;S NOTHING DRIVING US
TO WANT TO GET A HIGH ENOUGH
PRICE FOR THIS SITE IN ORDER
THAT WE CAN RETIRE THE DEBT
WITH IT AND THEN THERE WAS
MONEY FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SITE PURCHASES PASSED IN THE
ARPA FUNDS AND I CAN&apos;T REMEMBER
ANYTHING ELSE OF SPECIFIC
INTEREST TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; THEY ARE FUNDS AND WAS THERE
ANYTHING ELSE?
&gt;&gt; YES, BUT OK SO SARTORIUS WE
APPROVED THE BROWNFIELD USE
PLAN WHICH REALLY WASN&apos;T OURS.
&gt;&gt; WE DIDN&apos;T SEE THAT AND WE
HAVE GIVEN THEM A ONE MONTH
POSTPONEMENT TO CONTINUE
NEGOTIATING WITH THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION WHICH IS HELPING
THEM BE EVEN MORE INNOVATIVE
AROUND OUR CARBON NEUTRALITY
GOALS AND WHEN THEY ARE DONE
WITH THAT THEN THEY WILL COME
TO CITY COUNCIL AND ASK FOR
THEIR TAX OF EIGHT PERCENT.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT UPDATE, MR.
LEONARD.
&gt;&gt; NOTHING ADDITIONAL.
ALL RIGHT.
ARE THERE ANY PLANNING
COMMISSION OFFICERS OR
COMMITTEE LIAISONS THAT HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT OUT TO
OVERSEE DID MEET WE DISCUSSED
PREMIUM&apos;S THANK YOU AND YES,
THE NEXT EFFECTIVELY KIND
OF SCOPING OUT BOTH THE PROCESS
AND KIND OF THE GEOGRAPHE
EXTENT OF TSAY ONE.
THE NEXT BATCH OF PROACTIVE
REZONING WHICH STAFF HAD
RECOMMENDED BW STADIUM SO
BECAUSE THAT WAS SOMETHING WE
TALKED ABOUT AS A GROUP BEFORE
THANK YOU ALL FOR CONTRIBUTING
THAT ANYTHING ELSE I JUST SAY
THAT WE DID RECEIVE
COMMUNICATIONS BOTH OVER THE
WEEKEND AND THEN AN ADDITIONAL
SET THAT WAS SENT BEFORE THE
MEETING TODAY.
&gt;&gt; SO WE HAVE THAT&apos;S ALL RIGHT.
ITEM SIX IS THE FIRST
OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
PERSONS CAN SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED ON THE
AGENDA AS A PUBLIC HEARING.
&gt;&gt; SO WE WILL HAVE SEPARATE
PUBLIC HEARINGS TONIGHT FOR THE
MAPLE COVE TO PROPOSAL AND FOR
THE AMENDMENTS TO OFF STREET
PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR ANY
OTHER MATTERS.
NOW IS AN APPROPRIATE TIME TO
SPEAK.
WE&apos;LL FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
WHO ARE HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN TO REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS.
IF YOU ARE JOINING US REMOTELY
AND HAVE ALREADY DIALED IN, YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE TO INDICATE YOUR INTEREST
IN PARTICIPATING IN THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITY.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU ARE WATCHING US
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU CAN
USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE AND
IF YOU ARE WATCHING US ON TV
YOU CAN DIAL IN NOW THAT NUMBER
IS EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
OUR MEETING ID IS NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIXTY SIX THIRTY FOUR
TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
MR. LEONARD WILL SELECT THOSE
WHO HAVE AGAIN RAISED THEIR
HAND DIGITALLY BY PRESSING STAR
NINE THE RAISED HAND BUTTON
WILL CALL ON YOU BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF YOUR TELEPHONE
NUMBER.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AND WHETHER YOU ARE SPEAKING IN
PERSON OR THROUGH REMOTE MEANS
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE HERE IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS THAT WOULD
LIKE TO PROVIDE IT?
&gt;&gt; PUBLIC COMMENT NOW?
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT, MR. LEONARD,
ANYBODY ONLINE?
&gt;&gt; NO ONLINE ATTENDEES HAVE
INDICATED A DESIRE TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL, THERE&apos;S ANOTHER
OPPORTUNITY AT THE END OF THE
MEETING SO WE&apos;LL CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT OPPORTUNITY THIS
FIRST ONE AND MOVE TO ITEM
SEVEN.
THE PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED
FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
FOR THE APRIL 19TH PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING.
WE&apos;VE GOT TWO NEW SCHEDULED
PUBLIC HEARINGS.
ONE IS FOUR TO ONE TO MILLER
AVENUE, A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS THE PROPOSED
CONSTRUCTION OF AN EIGHT UNIT
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING TOTALING THIRTEEN
THOUSAND NINE HUNDRED THIRTY
FOUR SQUARE FEET ON POINT TWO
ACRE PARCEL ZONED D TO DOWNTOWN
INTERFACE AND THEN SECOND
TWENTY SIX HUNDRED PONTIAC
TRAIL ANNEXATION AND ZONING FOR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSED ANNEXATION
FROM ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP INTO
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
THE PETITIONER OF THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR
IS SEEKING TO ADD
THIS FIVE POINT SEVEN ACRE
PARCEL OF LAND TO THEIR
EXISTING PROJECT SITE AREA AND
ZONE.
IT ARE FOR A JUST AN ADDITIONAL
NOTE YOU&apos;LL RECALL THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAS CONSIDERED THE
ANNEXATION FOR THE
CORRESPONDING PROPERTIES BUT
THEY HAVE NOT YET BEEN APPROVED
BY THE STATE.
THE SITE PLAN WILL BE FOLLOWING
AFTER THAT ANNEXATION IS
COMPLETE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
VERY GOOD.
WE ARE ON TO ITEM EIGHT A THIS
IS REGULAR BUSINESS.
THE DISCUSSION WILL THE THE
FIRST ITEM OF BUSINESS IS FOR
THE MAPLE COVE TO WHICH IS FOR
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
APPROVAL TONIGHT WE&apos;LL HAVE THE
PROJECT PRESENTATION PRESUMABLY
BY THE PETITIONERS AND THEN OUR
STAFF REPORT BEFORE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND THEN OUR DISCUSSION
.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S MR. KOWALSKI JOINING
US.
WE CAN SEE HIM
AND A PETITIONER
IN THE FLESH.
&gt;&gt; VERY GOOD.
ACTUALLY LIVE AND SO I I GOT
BRETT&apos;S EMAIL SO I GUESS I&apos;LL
GUIDE YOU THROUGH IS GOING
THROUGH THE SLIDES I GUESS AND
YOU CAN&apos;T SEE THAT I SEE THEM
CAN YOU SEE IT ON THE MONITOR
RIGHT THERE AT THE PODIUM.
&gt;&gt; YES I CAN.
THERE YEAH.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M HIT HARD ON WITH
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING PART
OF THE PROJECT TEAM ALSO WITH
ME IS BRAD MOORE WHO IS WITH
THE THE ARCHITECTURAL SIDE
OF THE PROJECT AND JOINING
REMOTELY VIA ZOOM IS QAM WHO IS
THE OWNER AND ALSO THE
DEVELOPER.
SO BRAD, IF YOU WANT TO SLIDE
TO THE NEXT SLIDE AND THE NEXT
SLIDE SO AS YOU SEE ON THE
SCREEN THIS IS A PROJECT FOR A
PIECE OF LAND THAT IS LOCATED
ON THE NORTHWEST CORNER
OF MILLER AND MAPLE
INTERSECTION.
THIS IS CURRENTLY ZONED OFFICE
WITH A VERY SMALL TRIANGLE
PORTION OF THE VERY SOUTH
THAT&apos;S ZONED R ONE SEE THAT
PARTICULAR TRIANGLE SHAPE WAS
ANNEXED INTO THE CITY HERE IN
THE LAST TWO YEARS.
I THINK SO THAT&apos;S WHY IT WAS
HAS A DIFFERENT ZONING THAN THE
REST OF THE SITE.
THIS WAS IDENTIFIED IN THE
MASTER PLAN AS A PREFERRED USE
FOR HOUSING EVEN THOUGH IT&apos;S
OWN OFFICE ACROSS THE STREET ON
THE OTHER QUADRANTS OF THAT
INTERSECTION IS ALL COMMERCIAL.
YOU HAVE SUBWAYS AND GAS
STATIONS AND A LITTLE STRIP
MALL AND THEN AN OFFICE PARK ON
THE SE TO CORNER NEXT SLIDE BUT
THE EXISTING ADDITIONS RIGHT
NOW IT IS OCCUPIED BY WHAT&apos;S
SHOWN ON THE SIDE SLIDES IS TWO
VACANT HOUSES.
THE HOUSE ON THE SOUTH HAS
ACTUALLY BEEN DEMOLISHED NOW SO
THAT IS NO LONGER STANDING.
THERE IS A WETLAND THAT IS IN
THE CENTER OF THE SITE SO WE
HAVE AN ASSOCIATED WETLAND
BUFFER AROUND THAT WETLAND AND
THEN THERE IS A STAND OF SOME
TREES ON THE SOUTHWEST AND ALSO
IN THAT TRIANGLE SHAPED PORTION
LOCATED AT THE VERY SOUTH.
I WILL SAY THAT S TRIANGLE
SHAPED THERE IS NO PLANNED
DEVELOPMENT PROPOSED FOR THAT
THAT AREA.
SO NEXT SLIDE.
SO WHAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING IS
THREE MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL
APARTMENT UNITS, THE THE
OWNERSHIP OF OF THESE
APARTMENTS IS THE SAME
OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL AS THE
EXISTING MAYAKOBA APARTMENTS
WHICH IS DIRECTLY TO THE NORTH
.
SO THE THE THOUGHT IS TO USE
THE SAME MAINTENANCE STAFF
MANAGEMENT STAFF FOR BOTH
APARTMENTS AND REALLY HAVE THIS
ACT AS A I GUESS IN UNISON WITH
THAT THAT TOP ONE WE&apos;RE
PLANNING A PUBLIC I&apos;M SORRY
SHARED ACCESS EASEMENT THROUGH
BOTH DEVELOPMENTS SO THEY CAN
SHARE PARKING, SHARE THE
PEDESTRIAN PATHS.
I&apos;M SURE THE ACCESS AS WELL AS
SITE ENTITIES THAT ARE PRESENT.
SO WE ARE PROPOSING TO CURB
CUTS ONE ON MAPLE ROAD AND ONE
ON MILLER ROAD.
THOSE WILL SERVE FOR NOT ONLY
CIRCULATION WITHIN THE SITE BUT
ALSO FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLE
ACCESS&apos;S.
WE&apos;RE ALSO PROPOSING THE
CONNECTION TO THE EXISTING
MAPLE COVE APARTMENTS TO THE
NORTH.
THEREFORE IT&apos;LL PROVIDE THE
INTERNAL CIRCULATION ON THE
SITE.
NEXT SLIDE LIBBRECHT
BACK ONE
THERE YOU SO THERE IS A TOTAL
OF SEVENTY UNITS THAT WE&apos;RE
THAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING.
WE HAVE A PROPOSED EIGHTY SIX
PARKING SPACES THROUGHOUT THE
COMPLEX WHEN WE ORIGINALLY
SUBMITTED THIS IT WAS UNDER THE
OLD PLANNING ORDINANCE WHERE WE
WERE GOING TO CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL AND SINCE SINCE IT&apos;S A
BIG PROJECT WE&apos;RE NO LONGER
HAVE TO SERVE THAT WE DID
HOWEVER OPT TO LEAVE THE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN REQUIRED UNDER
THE OLD STANDARDS INTO THE
PLAN.
SO WE ARE STILL GOING TO
PROPOSE TO ADD THAT ELECTRICAL
VEHICLE PARKING RIGHT NOW WE&apos;VE
GOT A TOTAL OF SEVENTY ONE
SPACE IS PROPOSED TO EITHER BE
THE INSTALLED CAPABLE ALREADY
SPACES BIKES, BICYCLE PARKING
WOULD BE PROVIDED WITH BY KOOPS
OUTSIDE THE BUILDINGS AS WELL
AS A CENTRALLY LOCATED BIKE
SHELTER FOR THE CLASS A PARKING
NATURAL FEATURES JUST QUICKLY
TOUCH ON THAT WE DO HAVE SEVEN
LAMARK TREES THAT WE&apos;RE
PROPOSING TO BE REMOVED
MITIGATION THOSE WOULD BE ON
SITE.
THERE IS SOME IMPACTS NOT TO
THE WETLANDS BUT TO THE WETLAND
BUFFER AND THAT IS PRIMARILY
ASSOCIATED WITH THE EXISTING
GARAGE THAT SITS IN THAT
BUFFER.
SO WE&apos;RE IMPACTS TO THE BUFFER
WOULD BE TO THE REMOVAL OF THAT
GARAGE.
THERE WOULD BE A SMALL
RETAINING WALL ESTABLISHED
ALONG THE EDGE OF THAT BUFFER
AND THEN THE ASSOCIATED
RESTORATION OF THAT BUFFER WITH
PLANTINGS.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO WILL STATE THAT THE
WETLAND WE ARE PROPOSING TO
HAVE A WATER MANAGEMENT BUDGET
SO THAT WETLAND WOULD CONTINUE
TO RECEIVE SOME STORM WATER THE
AMOUNT OF THAT STORM WATER IS
WE TRIED TO MATCH IT TO BE
EQUAL FOR THE EXISTING
ADDITIONS OF WHAT IS PROPOSED.
THE REST OF THAT STORM WATER
WOULD BE IN AN UNDERGROUND
SYSTEM LOCATED ON SITE NEXT
SLIDE RIGHT.
SO TALKING QUICKLY ABOUT THE
UTILITIES YOU CAN SEE HERE THAT
THE STORMWATER DETENTION SYSTEM
PROPOSED AN UNDERGROUND SYSTEM
THAT IS LOCATED UNDER THE PAVED
PARKING AREA DRIVE ACCESS
TRYING TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF DUAL SPACE FOR THAT PARKING
STRUCTURE.
THE OUTLET IS OUT TO A COUNTY
DRAIN LOCATED ON THE EAST SIDE
OF MAPLE ROAD.
SO WE DO HAVE APPROVALS THROUGH
THE WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION
FOR THAT CONNECTION AND WE&apos;LL
CONTINUE TO WORK WITH THEM FOR
THE FINAL PERMIT WITH THE
CONSTRUCTION DETAILS OF EACH
BUILDING WOULD HAVE ITS OWN
WATER AND SANITARY CONNECTIONS
OUT TO THE RESPECTIVE EITHER
MILLER OR MAPLE ROADS FOR ALL
THREE BUILDINGS AND WE DO HAVE
ONE FIRE HYDRANT THAT WE&apos;RE
ADDING ACTUALLY TO FIRE
HYDRANTS I&apos;M SORRY THAT WE&apos;RE
ADDING ADJACENT TO THE
ENTRANCES AND THAT&apos;S TO PROVIDE
THE FIRE COVERAGES NECESSARY
FOR THE BUILDINGS.
SO WITH THE NEXT SLIDE I&apos;LL
TURN IT OVER TO BRAD AND HE CAN
SPEAK ABOUT THE ARCHITECTURE
SINCE THIS IS A CONTINUATION
OF THE ORIGINAL PROJECT ALL THE
BUILDINGS IN THE PEOPLE COME TO
HAVE BEEN DESIGNED TO MATCH
THOSE BUILDINGS.
THERE ARE A MIXTURE OF A
VARIETY OF MASONRY EXTERIOR
MATERIALS AND ALSO SOME SOME
INTERIOR SIDING.
THE BUILDINGS ARE THREE
STORIES.
THERE ARE SOME LIMITED BASEMENT
STORAGE SPACE FOR THE TENANTS
IN THE BUILDINGS AND EACH
BUILDING HAS A COMMUNITY PATIO
DECK ON THE ROOF SO THAT IT&apos;S A
AMENITY FOR EVERY BUILDING THAT
THEY HAVE A ROOFTOP PLACE TO GO
OUT AND GET A SUNTAN AND ENJOY
SOME CONVIVIALITY.
THE PARKING SPACES FOR THE
ORIGINAL MAPLE GROVE DID NOT
INCLUDE ANY OF THE ELECTRIC
VEHICLE CHARGING STATIONS AND
THEY WILL BECAUSE OF THIS CROSS
ACCESS EASEMENTS HAVE ACCESS TO
CHARGING STATIONS AND THIS FEE
SO THAT EVERYBODY IN THE
PROJECT WILL HAVE ACCESS TO
CHARGE ELECTRIC VEHICLES.
THE
YOU HAVE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS YOU AND I ARE HERE TO
ANSWER.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
KAWALSKY.
TEGRETOL.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE A LOT TO
ADD FROM THEIR PRESENTATION ON
A COUPLE OF THINGS I DID WANT
TO POINT OUT HOWEVER THE
PETITIONER DID MENTION THE
CERTAINLY UNITS IN THEIR MIX
OF ONE BUT WHAT ABOUT TWENTY
THREE ONE HUNDRED FORTY SEVEN
TWO BEDROOM UNITS AND THESE ARE
RANGING IN SIZE FROM BASIC 130
SQUARE FEET TO A LITTLE OVER A
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE ARE SMALLER THERE
ARE SMALLER UNITS WHICH MAY
MAKE THEM A LITTLE BIT MORE
AFFORDABLE BY NATURE OF THEIR
SIZE AND THE LIMITED NUMBER
BEDROOMS THERE AGAIN WITH A
COUPLE OF OTHER NOTABLE ITEMS
IS THE CROSS ACCESS THAT WE
WANTED TO POINT OUT WITH THE
MAPLE ONE PROJECT ADJACENT TO
IT THAT HAS A COUPLE
OF BENEFITS OBVIOUSLY FOR THE
PEDESTRIAN PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC
AS WELL.
THE KIND OF CUT THROUGH THERE
ARE SOME AMENITIES ON THIS SITE
.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S KIND OF A SMALL
PICNIC AREA THEY&apos;RE PLANNING IN
THE MIDDLE AREA OF THE SITE AND
AGAIN SOME OF THE ENCLOSED
BICYCLE LOCKERS THOSE MAY BE
AVAILABLE TO THE RESIDENTS AS I
UNDERSTAND IT AT BOTH SITES TO
BE ABLE TO USE THOSE AGAIN IN A
COUPLE THE OTHER THE WETLAND
USE PERMIT AS YOU WILL SEE ON
THAT IS THAT DOES REQUIRE THE
SEPARATE MOTION FOR APPROVAL
NOW AS AGAIN THE PETITIONER DID
INDICATE WHILE THEY&apos;RE NOT
GOING INTO THE WETLAND PERSAY
THAT THERE IS SOME ENCROACHMENT
AS IT STANDS RIGHT NOW DUE TO
THE EXISTING GARAGE WHICH WILL
OBVIOUSLY BE REMOVED AND THERE
WILL BE SOME RESTORATION IN
THAT AREA AND A LITTLE BIT
OF GRADING OBVIOUSLY TO MAKE
THE GRADES WORK IN THERE AS
WELL AS TRYING TO MAINTAIN
WATER BUDGET FOR THAT WETLAND.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS WITHIN THE
STORMWATER PLAN OBVIOUSLY THE
MAJORITY OF THE STORMWATER
NEEDS TO BE ROUTED TO THE
TREATMENT.
THERE IS AN ABILITY THOUGH AS
LONG AS THEY WORKED WITH OUR
NATURAL FEATURES COORDINATOR TO
HAVE SOME OF THE WATER MAINTAIN
THE EXISTING WATER BUDGET FOR
THAT WETLAND SO BECAUSE OF THAT
ENCROACHMENT, BECAUSE OF A
LITTLE BIT OF USE WITHIN THAT
WETLAND BUFFER AREA, THAT THAT
IS WHY THE WETLAND USE PERMIT
IS REQUIRED.
&gt;&gt; AND AGAIN, ONE OF THE ITEMS
IT WAS MENTIONED BUT I THINK IT
BEARS REPEATING IS THAT
ALTHOUGH OBVIOUSLY NOW THIS IS
A STATE PLAN FOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL.
SO IF APPROVED BY YOU ALL
TONIGHT, THIS OBVIOUSLY WOULD
BE THE FINAL STOP.
SO THE ISSUE OF PARKING IS NOT
REQUIRED.
HOWEVER, THEY HAVE MAINTAINED
THE THE SAME RATIO THAT WILL BE
REQUIRED AS IF THE PLAN WAS
GOING TO CITY COUNCIL FOR FINAL
APPROVAL AND THAT REALLY KIND
OF SUMS MY PRESENTATION OUT.
I BELIEVE THE PETITIONER HAD
COVERED EVERYTHING ELSE.
&gt;&gt; I GO BACK TO MY NOTES AND
LOOK HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO YEP, I THINK THAT STAFF
IS RECOMMENDING APPROVAL
OF BOTH THE STATE PLAN AS WELL
AS THE WETLAND USE PERMIT AND I
WAS CERTAINLY AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
KOWALSKI.
ALL RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I WILL OPEN UP THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM THIS IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THE MAPLE COVE TO A SITE
PLAN.
WE WILL AS BEFORE FIRST CALL ON
FOLKS THAT ARE HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN THOSE THAT
ARE ONLINE.
IF YOU HAVE JOINED THROUGH THE
WEBLINK USE THE RAISED HAND
BUTTON TO RAISE YOUR HAND IF
YOU&apos;RE WATCHING AND NEED TO
CALL IN NOW THE NUMBER IS EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND THEN
ENTER OUR MEETING ID WHICH IS
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIXTY SIX
THIRTY FOUR TWELVE TWENTY SIX
ONCE YOU&apos;RE IN OR IF YOU
ALREADY ARE ON THE PHONE YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE TO RAISE
YOUR HAND INDICATING YOU&apos;RE
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
THE PUBLIC HEARING THIS EVENING
MR. LEONARD WILL CALL ON YOU BY
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
TELEPHONE NUMBER OR BY YOUR
NAME IF YOU JOIN THROUGH SUME
AND AND SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
BACKGROUND SOUNDS IF YOU COULD
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS AND AGAIN
PLEASE KEEP THEM TO THREE
MINUTES.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE HERE IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS THAT WOULD
LIKE TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
PUBLIC HEARING
?
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP.
MY NAME KEN GARBER.
I LIVE AT TWENTY EIGHT
HEBRIDEAN COURT.
THE STAFF REPORT FOR THIS
PROJECT INDICATED THAT THE
PETITION WAS PREPARED TO
DISCUSS SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS
AT THE MEETING.
SO I WAS VERY HOPEFUL THAT IN
THE PRESENTATION WE JUST HEARD
WE WOULD HAVE HEARD PLANS FOR
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION AND
HOPEFULLY ALSO PHOTOVOLTAIC
PANELS, SOLAR PANELS ON THE
ROOF TO GENERATE SOME
ELECTRICITY ON SITE.
&gt;&gt; WHAT WE HEARD WAS SOME
INFORMATION ABOUT EV CHARGING
STATIONS AND BICYCLE PARKING,
BOTH OF WHICH EITHER ARE
ALREADY REQUIRED OR AT THIS
STAGE PRETTY MUCH EXPECTED
OF NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
I&apos;M DISAPPOINTED MAYBE SOME
MORE WILL COME OUT DURING Q&amp;A
BUT IN THE MEANTIME I WOULD
REMIND BOTH PLANNING COMMISSION
AND THE PETITIONER THAT THERE
HAS BEEN A VERY STRONG TREND IN
THE LAST YEAR AND A HALF FOR
NEW RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS TO
COME IN ALL ELECTRIC LOCKWOOD
SENIOR LIVING LAST YEAR TWENTY
ONE ELEVEN PACARD NEW NORTHTOWN
HOMES MOSTLY AND THE BIGGEST
ONE WAS ABOUT GLEN FOUR HUNDRED
FIFTY FOUR APARTMENT UNIT AND I
KNOW THAT THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
IS VERY FAMILIAR WITH THIS
PROJECT BECAUSE I BELIEVE MR.
MOORE IS THE ARCHITECT ON THAT
SO I&apos;M A LITTLE PUZZLED THAT
THIS HAS NOT BEEN PROPOSED FOR
THIS PROJECT AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO IF THAT&apos;S A QUESTION I
WOULD HAVE FOR THE PETITIONER
IF I WERE SITTING IN YOUR SEAT
AND OTHERWISE ABOUT ALL I CAN
SAY GOOD ABOUT THIS PROJECT IS
ITS HOUSING.
WE NEED HOUSING I SUPPOSE THE
UNITS ARE SMALLER AND SO
PERHAPS MORE AFFORDABLE THOUGH
I HESITATE TO USE THE WORD
AFFORDABLE FOR UNITS THAT WILL
END UP IN THE FIRST PHASE ARE
OVER FOURTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS A
MONTH FOR A SINGLE FOUR ONE
BEDROOM APARTMENT BUT I GUESS
EVERYTHING IS RELATIVE SO YOU
CAN CHALK THAT UP IN THE IN
THIS PROJECT FAVOR OTHER THAN
THAT VERY DISAPPOINTING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER PARTICIPANTS MR.
LEONARD, ARE THERE ANY ONLINE
?
&gt;&gt; NO SPEAKERS HAVE INDICATED A
DESIRE TO SPEAK ALL RIGHTS.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
THEN AND READ THE TWO MOTIONS.
I&apos;LL READ THEM TOGETHER.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVES THE MAPLE
COVE TWO SITE PLAN AT SIXTEEN
OH FIVE NORTH MAPLE ROAD DATED
FEBRUARY 2ND TWENTY TWENTY TWO
AS THE SITE PLAN COMPLIES WITH
ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE AND OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS
ORDINANCES STANDARDS AND
REGULATIONS AND BASED UPON THE
FOLLOWING CONDITION THAT ALL
PARCELS MUST BE COMBINED BEFORE
ISSUANCE OF ANY BUILDING
PERMITS.
THE SECOND MOTION IS THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVES
THE WETLAND USE PERMIT FOR THE
MAPLE KOFTA PROJECT SITE PLAN.
&gt;&gt; CAN I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
MOVE THAT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
GIB RANDALL SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LEE WHO WOULD LIKE
TO KICK OFF DISCUSSION OR
QUESTIONS?
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER SAUVé
.
I THINK I HAVE A FEW SIMPLE
ONES.
I MEAN I APPRECIATE THE KIND
OF CONTINUATION OF THE
APARTMENTS KIND OF ALONG THIS
BLOCK.
I KNOW WE&apos;VE SEEN A OTHER
PARCEL JUST NORTH OF HERE SO
IT&apos;S GREAT TO SEE ESTANCIA
HOUSING FOR THE PETITIONER
EVERYTH THE VEHICLE CHARGING
STATIONS ARE ALL LABELED
CONSISTENTLY BUT IT IS INTENDED
TO BE A PHASED PROJECT AS IT&apos;S
NOTED.
CAN YOU OUTLINE WHAT ONES MIGHT
BE VXI OR INSTALLED VERSUS
CAPABLE WITHIN THE PLAN?
WILL WE SEE INSTALLED IN PHASE
ONE?
TO BE HONEST I CAN&apos;T GIVE AN
ACCURATE ANSWER ON THAT.
I KNOW THE THE INSTALLATION IS
THOUGHT TO BE ASSOCIATED WITH
EACH BUILDING SO THEY WERE IN
CLOSE PROXIMITY OF THE BUILDING
SO AS FAR AS THE DETERMINATION
OF WHICH EXACT ONES WOULD BE
INSTALLED IN PHASE ONE, I
PROBABLY CAN&apos;T SPEAK ON THAT AT
THE MOMENT.
I CAN&apos;T SAY THAT THERE ALL
WOULD BE THE CAPABLE SO YOU
KNOW, ACTUALLY CHOOSING THE
FINAL RESTING PLACE FOR THOSE
UNITS WOULD HAVE TO BE
DETERMINED AT THAT TIME.
IT&apos;D BE NICE ESPECIALLY BECAUSE
THE OTHER UNIT HASN&apos;T HAD ANY
AND IF THESE ARE GOING TO BE TO
START WITH THE INSTALLED AND
KIND OF WORK YOUR WAY DOWN TIER
THROUGH THE PHASES WOULD BE,
YOU KNOW, AN IDEAL PREFERENCE
IN MY NOTES IT&apos;S THE DESIRE
OF THE ORDER TO TO HAVE SOME
INSTALLED UNITS IN PHASE ONE
AND PHASE ONE BRING THEM OUT
EARLY THAT WAY THEY WOULD BE
AVAILABLE FOR THE EXISTING
APARTMENT COMPLEX ALSO GREAT
NOT JUST THE BUILDINGS STAFF
HERE.
THE NEXT QUESTION CURB CUTS.
THE CURRENT DEVELOPMENT HAS ONE
CURVE CUT WITH TWO DEAD END
PARKING SPACE NOW HAS TWO MORE
CURB CUTS AND THE JOINT SO
THREE FOR THE WHOLE DEVELOPMENT
AND I&apos;M WONDERING IF YOU DID
ANY ANALYSIS TO SEE IF YOU
COULD HAVE A DEAD END CORRIDOR
WITHIN THIS DEVELOPMENT
AND
STILL GET THE VEHICULAR
MOVEMENT NECESSARY WITHOUT THE
EXTRA KAPUTT.
WOULD YOU BE ARE YOU REFERRING
TO REMOVING A CURB CUT OFF THE
PUBLIC STREET?
YEP.
OK, IT COULD BE POSSIBLE.
I KNOW WE WERE LOOKING AT THE
THE VEHICLE CIRCULATION IT WAS
DESIRED TO HAVE THAT ACCESS TO
MIDDLE ROAD ESPECIALLY FOR
VEHICLES LEAVING SO THEY
WOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO GO OUT TO
MAPLE ROAD AND THEN ATTEMPT TO
GO RIGHT TURN LANE DURING
TRAFFIC TIMES.
SO THE DESIRE WAS THERE TO HAVE
THAT THE CIRCULATION PROBLEM I
KNOW THAT THAT THE PROCESS THE
ONE CAR CUTOFF OF MAPLE ROAD
WAS DESIGNED ONE ACTUALLY FOR
BOTH ROADS BECAUSE OF THE
HEIGHT OF THE BUILDINGS THOSE
CURB CUTS THE DRIVE ILLES AS
YOU COME IN OR TWENTY SIX FEET
WIDE AND THAT DOES PROVIDE THE
AERIAL ACCESS REQUIRED FROM THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT.
SO WITH THAT ASPECT YES.
THEY WILL BOTH BE REQUIRED TO
BE PRESENT.
OK THAT&apos;S JUST ONE OF THE
ENGINEERING FOR THE ARCHITECT.
IT SAYS ON THE ROOF PLAN
OPTIONAL ROOF DECK PATIO.
SO CAN YOU SPEAK TO IF WHAT IS
THE PLAN FOR THAT SINCE THERE
IS LIMITED GREEN SPACE AND IT&apos;S
LABELED AS OPTIONAL, IS IT
GUARANTEED OR ARE YOU GOING TO
SEE THIS OR IF IT&apos;S OPTIONAL IS
THE OTHER OPTION SOLAR PANELS
INSTEAD?
&gt;&gt; SO IT HAS BEEN MY DISCUSSION
WITH THE OWNER THAT HE INTENDS
TO PUT THEM ON THE BUILDINGS.
I HAVE NO BELIEF THAT THEY
WOULDN&apos;T BE INCLUDED IN THE
PROJECT.
WE DO HAVE HIM WITH US ON
RESUME BUT AS FAR AS I KNOW
THEY INTEND TO BUILD IN.
GO AHEAD IF YOU WANT TO ADDRESS
IT.
YEAH, YEAH.
THE FIRST PHASE DOES HAVE BOTH
BUILDINGS WITH ROOF TOPS
COMPLETED AND WE WANT TO KEEP
THAT CONSISTENT IN THE SECOND
PHASE WITH THESE THREE
ADDITIONAL BUILDINGS.
SO THE PLAN IS TO HAVE A
ROOFTOP PATIO ON EACH BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; OK, AND THEN ELECTRIC FOR I
THINK THE EASIEST ONE THAT WE
SEE PRETTY CONSISTENTLY IS
ELECTRIC STOVES INSTEAD OF GAS
STOVES.
&gt;&gt; IS THAT SOMETHING THAT
YOU&apos;RE WILLING TO COMPLY WITH
FOR THIS PROJECT?
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE OPEN TO IT.
WE&apos;RE NOT READY TO AT THIS TIME
JUST WANT TO LEAVE THE OPTIONS
OPEN.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE NOT AT THAT POINT JUST
YET.
ARE YOU SEEING ANY LIMITS TO
YOUR ELECTRIC CITY ON THE SITE
OR WHAT ARE YOUR REASONS FOR
NOT WANTING TO COMMIT?
&gt;&gt; TO BE HONEST, I JUST HAVEN&apos;T
DONE A WHOLE LOT OF RESEARCH ON
THE TWO AND I JUST WANT TO KIND
OF WEIGH UP THE TWO OPTIONS AT
THE TIME WHEN WHEN WE&apos;RE READY
TO TO MAKE THAT DECISION.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD HEAVILY ENCOURAGE
JUST IN TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
YOUR RENEWABLES AND THE SAFETY
OF ALL OF YOUR RESIDENTS IN
TERMS OF AIR QUALITY AND IT&apos;S A
VERY MINIMAL IF ANYTHING COST
TO THE DIFFERENCE.
SO I WOULD REALLY ENCOURAGE
THAT AS THE SIMPLE LOW HANGING
FRUIT DIRECTION AND MOVING THIS
BUILDING TOWARDS
ELECTRIFICATION SO THAT
EVERYTHING ELSE YEAH, I
DEFINITELY WILL LOOK AT WHAT
VERY DEEPLY AND AND MAKE THE
BEST CHOICE THAT GREAT.
THOSE ARE JUST MY FIRST PROJECT
QUESTIONS FOR NO THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OTHER QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
COMMISSIONERS COMMISSIONER
WHICH JUST WANT TO PICK UP FROM
COMMISSIONERS ALWAYS COMMENT
AROUND THE FIRE TRUCK IN THE
CURB CUTS ON THE WAS IT A
REQUIREMENT OF THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT THAT YOU INSTALLED
THE CURB ON MOWER OR ARE YOU
SAYING BECAUSE YOU&apos;VE INSTALLED
THE CURB CUT IT MEETS THE
SPECIFICATION OF THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT THE THE FIRE
CODE WHICH IS ADOPTED BY THE
CITY OF VIENNA REQUIRES CERTAIN
ACCESSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS TO
EACH BUILDING INCLUDING AERIAL
ACCESS FOR THE LADDER TRUCKS.
AND THIS WAS THE THIS WAS THE
ONLY CONFIGURATION GAVE US THE
REQUIRED AERIAL APPARATUS
ACCESS TO ALL THREE BUILDINGS.
&gt;&gt; OK, HOW DID YOU MEET THE
SPECIFICATION FOR THE FIRST TO
BECAUSE YOU HAVE THE SAME
CONFIGURATION OF THE BUILDING.
SO AS I&apos;M LOOKING AT THE AERIAL
SHOT, YOU HAVE A BUILDING WITH
A PARKING LOT THAT IS IDENTICAL
TO WHAT YOU&apos;RE PROPOSING IN
THIS ADDITION.
SO HOW DID YOU MEET THAT ONE?
BUT IN THIS ONE YOU HAVE TO PUT
IN A CURB CUT IN ORDER TO MEET
IT?
&gt;&gt; WELL, IT IS IT THIS IN
ESSENCE THE SAME CONFIGURATION
THERE&apos;S A CURB CUT BETWEEN TWO
ADJACENT BUILDINGS SO THAT
AERIAL APPARATUS TRUCK CAN PULL
OFF OF MAPLE ROAD VIA THE CURB
CUT IN THE ERA APPARATUS CAN
SERVICE EITHER BUILDING.
THAT&apos;S THE SAME CASE IN THE
FIRST BUT YOU DON&apos;T HAVE YOU
DON&apos;T HAVE TWO.
CAN YOU PUT UP THEIR SITE PLAN
PLEASE?
&gt;&gt; MR. WINTER, WOULD YOU PLEASE
PUT UP THEIR SITE PLAN SO THAT
I COULD REFER TO IT SO THAT
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT THE SAME THING
AND I CAN GET A I MIGHT ADD A
LITTLE CLARITY ONE ACCORDING TO
THE FIRE CODE THAT AERIAL
APPARATUS HAS TO BE WITHIN 15
TO 30 FEET OF THE BUILDING.
SO IT&apos;S THE PROXIMITY OF TWENTY
SIX FOOT WIDE DRIVE LANE IN
ORDER TO MEET THAT THAT
CODE AND MAYBE MAYBE THIS IS A
QUESTION FOR STAFF THEN LIKE
HOW DID THEY MEET IT IN THE
FIRST WHEN BECAUSE THE
CONFIGURATION OF THE BUILDING
IS THE SAME.
YEAH I&apos;LL LEAVE IT TO MR.
KOWALSKI THAT YOU HAVE ANY
REPORTS ON THE FIRE FROM THE
FIRE MARSHAL CAN THAT CAN SPEAK
TO THAT?
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
WELL UNFORTUNATELY I CAN&apos;T
SPEAK DIRECTLY TO THE FIRST
APPROVAL I WAS THE PLAN ON THAT
PROJECT.
I&apos;M NOT AWARE OF EXACTLY THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THAT AREA BUT
WHAT I CAN SAY IS TO THIS
EFFECT IS THAT ONE OF MY FIRST
COMMENTS WAS TO CLOSE LIKE
MINIMIZE THE CURB CUTS WAS TO
ELIMINATE THAT.
BUT THE ADDITIONAL CUT ON MAPLE
AND IT STRUCK THE FIRE MARSHAL
CAME BACK AND DID DIDN&apos;T WANT
THAT REQUIRED THAT THAT ACCESS
POINT THERE.
SO IN ADDITION IT ALSO HELPED
WITH THE SOLID WASTE LAYOUT AS
WELL.
THE SOLID WASTE WOULD HAVE
SHIFTED CONSIDERABLY OVER AND
OVER TO GET THAT CLEARANCE.
SO UNFORTUNATELY I CAN&apos;T SPEAK
TO THE FIRST APPROVAL BUT I CAN
SPEAK TO THIS AND THAT IS THE
STAFF COMMENT THAT WAS
REGARDING THE CUT AND THE FIRE
MARSHAL DID PUSH BACK A LITTLE
BIT AND SAID THAT THAT FIRE
ACCESS THERE WOULD BE REQUIRED
OR THEY WOULD HAVE TO PROVIDE
SAY LIKE A LARGE TURNAROUND
THAT WOULD KIND OF FIT WITHIN
THAT AREA ANYWAY.
&gt;&gt; SO AND I WOULD I WOULD JUST
ADD IF YOU WOULD LIKE IF THE
COMMISSION IS INTERESTED MORE
INFORMATION WE OF COURSE CAN
FOLLOW UP WITH THE FIRE MARSHAL
TO PROVIDE THAT INQUIRY.
I I DON&apos;T WANT TO REFERENCE
NUMBERS BECAUSE AND I CAN&apos;T
SPEAK FOR TO THE FIRE
CODE ARCHITECTS IN THE ROOM
PROBABLY KNOW BETTER THAN I DO
BUT THERE&apos;S THAT TWENTY SIX
FOOT REQUIREMENT IS ACCESSIBLE
TO THE BUILDING OR WITHIN A
DISTANCE IT MAY BE THAT THAT
FIRST CURB CUT PROVIDED THE
DISTANCE FOR THE TWO BUILDINGS
TO BE ACCESSIBLE.
HOWEVER, ONCE YOU STARTED
STACKING MULTIPLE BUILDINGS
BEYOND THAT YOU MIGHT HAVE GONE
BEYOND THAT DIMENSION.
BUT IF THERE&apos;S MORE
CLARIFICATION DESIRED WE COULD
ASK.
&gt;&gt; MY FIRST QUESTION WAS
FOLLOWING UP FROM COMMISSIONER
SILVER&apos;S QUESTION WHICH IS WAS
IT REQUIRED OR NOT?
AND IT SOUNDS LIKE AT LEAST
FROM MR. GLOSSY THAT IT WAS
REQUIRED IN ORDER TO ACCOMPLISH
THAT TO THE OWNER AS WELL AS
THE PETITIONERS WHO ARE IN THE
ROOM.
I&apos;D LIKE AGAIN ECHO
COMMISSIONER SURVEY&apos;S COMMENT
AROUND ELECTRIC STATION JUST
FOR THE WELL-BEING AND HEALTH
OF THE RESIDENTS.
JUST YOU KNOW, NATURAL GAS JUST
CREATES MORE CARBON THAT GETS
PUT INTO THE HOME AND WITHOUT
ADEQUATE VENTILATION THAT CAN
CAUSE HEALTH PROBLEMS THAT ARE
WELL DOCUMENTED NOW.
AND SO AS WE ARE IN OUR CLIMATE
CRISIS, AS WE ARE TRYING TO
ACHIEVE OUR CLIMATE GOALS,
ELECTRIFICATION IS SOMETHING
THAT NOT ONLY HELPS US WITH
THAT BUT IT ALSO HELPS THE
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING OF THE
RESIDENTS.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER QUESTION THAT I
HAD WAS AROUND THE CROSSWALK
LIKE IS THAT AH THERE IS ONE
PUTTING IN THESE ADDITIONAL
UNITS HAVING RESIDENT NEEDING
TO CROSS MAPLE.
I SEE THAT THERE IS A CROSSWALK
THAT&apos;S AT SORT OF THE SOUTH
PART OF THE FIRST DEVELOPMENT.
WAS THERE ANY CONVERSATION
EITHER FROM STAFF OR WITH THE
PETITIONER ABOUT ADDRESSING
SORT PEDESTRIAN SAFETY AROUND
THE BUILDING AND BEING ABLE TO
CROSS OR PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC?
I THINK THAT&apos;S STILL INSIDE OUR
PURVIEW FROM THE BUILDING TO
OTHER SITES AND AMENITIES ON
MAPLE.
&gt;&gt; I CAN I CAN LET THE
PETITIONER ADD TO THIS BUT I
DID THAT AGAIN.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE COMMENTS
THAT I RELATE OVER TO THE
TRANSPORTATION REVIEW ON THIS
IS WHETHER OR NOT SHE FELT IT
WOULD BE A NEED FOR A
OF CROSSING AND A COUPLE
OF REASONS.
NO, SHE DIDN&apos;T FEEL THAT THERE
IS ANY GIVEN THE PROXIMITY
OF THE ONE TO THE SOUTH ALSO
WITH OTHER DRIVEWAYS AND ACCESS
POINTS WITHIN THEIR IT THERE
WAS THERE WAS NOT A GOOD POINT.
THERE WAS NOT A GOOD ACCESS
POINT THERE TO THAT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE THE TESTIMONY
EXPLORED THAT.
BUT AGAIN, I ASKED A QUESTION
AND IT WAS NOT RECOMMENDED SO I
DID NOT PURSUE
PAST THAT POINT.
OK, IS THERE ACCESS TO THAT
LIKE WAS THAT A QUESTION OR
LIKE A VERBAL OR A WRITTEN
RESPONSE?
I&apos;M JUST INTERESTED IN WHY
BECAUSE IF PEOPLE ARE TURNING
INTO THIS NEW CURB CUT FROM A
LEFT TURN LANE THAT IS GOING TO
IMPEDE THE BIKE LANE AS WELL AS
THE PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT ON THE
WEST SIDE OF MAPLE.
AND SO I&apos;M JUST A LITTLE
SURPRISED THAT THERE WASN&apos;T ANY
CONSIDERATION FOR HOW THAT
WOULD IMPACT SAFETY THERE.
&gt;&gt; I YEAH, I MEAN I DON&apos;T HAVE
A WRITTEN ACTUALLY I PROBABLY
DO HAVE A RESPONSE.
YES.
WHETHER OR NOT IT&apos;S WARRANTED I
DON&apos;T KNOW EXACTLY HOW MANY
FACTORS THAT SHE DID LOOK INTO
REGARDING LIKE CROSSETT TURNING
LANE INTERFERENCE AND THINGS
LIKE THAT ACROSS THE BIKE LANE.
I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW FAR THAT
ANALYSIS IS ANALYSIS WENT DOWN
THERE BUT AGAIN, I KNOW I DID
HAVE THAT CONVERSATION WITH HER
AND THAT COULD BE AGAIN
SOMETHING THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WORTH
FOLLOWING UP ON TO SEE MAYBE IF
THOSE OTHER ITEMS WERE EXPLORED
THERE AGAIN TO THE INITIAL
RESPONSE WAS THAT WASN&apos;T
WARRANTED IN THAT AREA.
WE CAN CERTAINLY AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; ABSOLUTELY.
AND THEN MY LAST QUESTION MAYBE
MORE OF A COMMENT IS THERE
AREN&apos;T SINCE THIS WAS ZONED
OFFICE AND JUST IN A SURVEY A
QUICK SURVEY NEAR BY THE
PROPERTY, THERE ARE ANY PARKS
OR SORT OF LIKE OPEN GREEN
SPACES FOR THE RESIDENTS.
SO SINCE THAT S CORNER WEDGE
ISN&apos;T BEING DEVELOPED AND IF
I&apos;M LOOKING AT THE SITE PLAN
CORRECTLY, THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF SHRUBS BUT I CAN SEE THERE
MIGHT BE SOME SPACE IN THERE
WITHOUT HAVING TO TAKE OUT ANY
TREES TO MAYBE PLACE A POCKET
PARK AND SO I WONDERED IF THE
PETITIONER HAD CONSIDERED AN
MINUTI FOR THE RESIDENCE
OUTSIDE OF THE ROOFTOP PATIOS
TO CREATE SOME KIND OF GREEN
SPACE OR MAYBE EVEN A PLAY AREA
IF THERE WILL BE FAMILY
RESIDING IN THESE UNITS WE DID
HAVE SOME DISCUSSIONS ABOUT
DOING THAT VERY THING.
WE HAD NOT ADVANCED THE LAYOUT
OF THAT TO HAVE FINALIZED IT
YET BUT YES, WE HAD ALREADY
IDENTIFIED THAT AS A POSSIBLE
THOSE ARE MY INITIAL COMMENTS
AND QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MR.
WHITE.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER, WHY DON&apos;T KNOW
WHY I CALLED YOU MR. WHITE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S I DON&apos;T KNOW I&apos;M GLAD I
REMEMBERED YOUR LAST NAME THIS
TIME BECAUSE PREVIOUS WEEKS
THAT&apos;S NOT THAT&apos;S NOT BEEN MY
OTHER QUESTIONS COMMENTS
COMMISSIONER GET BRANDELL I
GUESS THIS IS JUST PART OF OUR
OWN ISSUES WITHIN THE CITY THAT
IS IS DIFFICULT AND FRUSTRATING
TO ME WHICH IS THAT IF WE
DIDN&apos;T HAVE THAT CURB CUT WE
WOULD STILL HAVE TO MITIGATE
FOR IT BUT WE COULD PRESERVED A
24 INCH WHITE OAK TREE IN THAT
PLACE WHERE IT&apos;S COMING UNDER
MILLER AND I REALIZE THAT WE
DON&apos;T YOU KNOW, AS PETITIONERS
AND AS STAFF MEMBERS WITHIN THE
CITY THAT THERE&apos;S OFTEN
CONFLICTS BETWEEN DIFFERENT
DEPARTMENTS ABOUT WHAT THEY
WANT AND WHAT THEIR STANDARDS
ARE AND THINGS THAT I KNOW IT
ALWAYS DEFAULTS TO FIRE HEALTH,
SAFETY, WELFARE, ALL THAT KIND
OF BUSINESS.
BUT I GUESS I&apos;M JUST POINTING
OUT JUST TO US AS A BODY AND TO
THE CITY IN GENERAL THAT IT&apos;S
REALLY FRUSTRATING TO ME WHEN
THERE ARE OPTIONS THAT WE COULD
MAYBE HAVE GIVEN THAT IT LOOKS
LIKE THAT BUILDING IS JUST
BARELY BEYOND THE TWENTY SIX
FEET FROM MILLER THAT WOULD
ALLOW AERIAL ACCESS THAT IT&apos;S
JUST AN OBVIOUSLY I&apos;M SURE YOU
HAVE IT RIGHT SIT BACK AND ALL
THAT KIND OF THING.
I JUST FIND IT FRUSTRATING THAT
WE HAVE TO TAKE DOWN A HUGE
GORGEOUS WHITE OAK RIDGE.
YOU CAN SEE FROM THE GOOGLE
STREET VIEW IS BACK IN THERE.
I JUST FIND IT FRUSTRATING THAT
WE HAVE TO MAKE THOSE KINDS
OF CHOICES WHEN SOMETHING IS SO
CLOSE TO BEING POTENTIALLY
WORKABLE AND AGAIN YOU WOULD
HAVE HAD TO MITIGATE FOR IT
ANYWAY BECAUSE YOU WOULD HAVE
AFFECTED FIFTY PERCENT CRITICAL
ZONE BUT MAYBE IT WOULD HAVE
MADE IT THROUGH THE
CONSTRUCTION PROCESS IF THE
REST OF IT HAD REALLY BEEN
PROTECTED.
I KNOW THIS ISN&apos;T YOUR PROBLEM
.
I&apos;M JUST POINTING THIS OUT I
THINK AS A BODY THAT IS
SOMETHING I GET FRUSTRATED WITH
BOTH AS SOMEBODY WHO SITS HERE
AND SOMEBODY WHO PUTS THINGS
THROUGH THE CITY AS WELL THAT
THAT WE HAVE TO MAKE THESE
CHOICES AND THAT I JUST WOULD
REALLY LIKE IT IF WE COULD TRY
TO FIGURE HOW TO HAVE A LITTLE
BIT MORE FLEXIBILITY WITH
SOMETHING SO THAT WE CAN MAKE
CHOICES THAT JUST MAKE SENSE
WITH SOME OF THIS STUFF.
SO I&apos;M JUST KIND OF SAYING THAT
OUT LOUD.
I&apos;M NOT EXPECTING ANYTHING
BECAUSE I UNDERSTAND THAT, YOU
KNOW, YOU ALL WERE RESPONDING
TO STEPH COMMENTS AND YOU KNOW
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO DO WITH THE
FIRE MARSHAL&apos;S GOING TO TELL
YOU TO DO BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S I JUST
FIND IT HARD WHEN THERE&apos;S JUST
THESE THINGS OUT THERE THAT WE
HAVE THAT THAT ARE IN CONFLICT
WITH ONE ANOTHER WHEN I FEEL
JUST A LITTLE BIT
OF FLEXIBILITY SOMETIMES WOULD
ALLOW US TO MAKE BETTER CHOICES
AROUND SOME OF THOSE THINGS.
SO IN MY PERFECT WORLD YOU
WOULD DESIGNED AROUND IT IN THE
FIRST PLACE SO THAT MAYBE YOU
HAD FIVE LESS PARKING SPACES,
YOU KNOW THE WAY THAT YOU CAN
FIGURE THAT WHOLE DRIVE BUT YOU
KNOW WHAT&apos;S DONE IS DONE.
YOU GUYS ARE DOING WHAT&apos;S
WITHIN YOUR CODE SO I&apos;M NOT
GOING TO FAULT YOU FOR THAT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S THE WAY I WISH PEOPLE
STARTED THEIR SITE PLANS IS
THINKING ABOUT THOSE REALLY
AMAZING RESOURCES THAT WE DO
HAVE AND TRYING TO START FROM
THAT POINT RATHER THAN LAYING
IT OUT AND THEN REALIZING THAT
WE&apos;RE YOUR TAKEN OUT LIKE TWO
BIG OAKS IN THAT AREA, ONE
OF WHICH IS RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF A BUILDING AND YOU PROBABLY
COULDN&apos;T HAVE DONE MUCH ABOUT
SO I&apos;M JUST PUTTING THAT OUT
THERE FOR THE RECORD, I GUESS I
WOULD ALSO ENCOURAGE WHATEVER
ELECTRIC YOU CAN MANAGE AND
STOP SEEMED PRETTY PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
THERE&apos;S ALSO INDUCTION TOO.
WE JUST DID THIS MY OWN HOUSE
WHICH I KNOW THAT THERE&apos;S KIND
OF THE WHOLE KIND OF WHICH
MARKET YOU&apos;RE GETTING AT AND
YOU HAVE PEOPLE TEND TO THINK
OF ELECTRIC AS BEING OH MAYBE
IT&apos;S NOT NICE ENOUGH FOR THE
RENT I WANT TO CHARGE AND THEN
THERE&apos;S GAS BUT INDUCTION IS
ACTUALLY GETTING TO BE MORE
TRENDY AND SO THERE ARE WAYS TO
DO ELECTRIC THAT ARE THAT ARE
HIGHER AND TOO IF THAT&apos;S PART
OF A MARKET THAT YOU&apos;RE GOING
FOR.
SO THAT&apos;S SOMETHING ALSO I
THINK THAT IS AN OPTION FOR
PEOPLE AS THEY&apos;RE PUTTING
DEVELOPMENTS OUT THERE THAT
ELECTRIC CAN BE SOMETHING THAT
IS HIGH PERFORMANCE AS WELL FOR
FOR SOME OF THE KITCHEN
APPLIANCES.
SO YEAH, I I AM LESS IN FAVOR
OF A MARKET BUSY CORNER.
I THINK IT&apos;D BE I DON&apos;T THINK
I&apos;D WANT TO HANG OUT THERE AND
HE&apos;S TOO BUSY.
THERE ARE SOME AROUND IT&apos;S NOT
GREAT I AGREE.
I MEAN MAYBE YOU COULD PLOP
BENCH THERE BUT IT FEELS REALLY
IT&apos;S A BUSY INTERSECTION.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT I&apos;D WANT TO
HANG OUT THERE IF IT IS IN A
DIFFERENT PART OF THE SITE I
THINK I&apos;D WANT TO HANG THERE
MORE.
SO THAT&apos;S WHERE I AM.
I GUESS IN TERMS OF THE IN
TERMS OF THAT MAYBE YOU CAN DO
SOME REALLY COOL THINGS WITH
THE THE ROOFTOP AREAS FOR
PEOPLE IN TERMS OF MAKING THEM
PLEASANT AND NICE FOR PEOPLE TO
BE IN.
SO THE OTHER JUST RANDOM THING
I WOULD SAY IS THAT THE
BUILDING TO THE NORTH I KNOW
SOMEONE IS DOING CONDITIONING
WITH IT AND THERE WERE SOME
ISSUES WITH MOISTURE AND THE
WAY THE MASONRY WAS HANDLED AND
SO I WOULD HOPE THAT THAT WOULD
GET CORRECTED THE SECOND TIME
AROUND THERE&apos;S KIND OF THAT
WHITE INFLORESCENCE THAT
HAPPENS ON THE OUTSIDE OF BRICK
.
THIS SAYS SOMETHING WAS WRONG
IN TERMS OF THE WAY THAT I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT&apos;S DESIGN OR
CONSTRUCTION OR YOU KNOW WHAT
IT WAS BUT THERE WAS SOME SORT
ISSUE WITH IT IN TERMS OF IN
TERMS OF HOW IT WAS HANDLING
MOISTURE.
SO GIVEN THAT THIS IS KIND
OF PHASE TWO OF THAT OVERALL
THING, I WOULD HOPE THAT THAT
WOULD YOU&apos;D LOOK INTO THAT FOR
THIS NEXT ROUND AND BE ABLE TO
MAKE SURE THAT THAT GETS
CORRECTED SO THAT WHEN WE DO
BUILD THINGS THERE THEY&apos;RE
BUILT TO LAST.
SO THAT&apos;S IT FOR NOW.
GO AHEAD.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
THANK YOU.
SO WE HAD A NEIGHBOR SEND US
SOME COMMUNICATION AND I WANTED
TO BRING UP ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT SHE BROUGHT UP WHICH IS
PARKING.
I DON&apos;T SPECIFICALLY HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH THE NUMBER
OF PARKING SPOTS THAT YOU HAVE
PROPOSED BUT I&apos;M CURIOUS I
GUESS HOW YOU GOT THERE AND IT
MIGHT BE THAT THAT&apos;S WHAT IT&apos;S
REQUIRED FOR OFFICE.
BUT THEN BEYOND THAT, THE
DEVELOPMENT THAT I&apos;VE WON I&apos;M
WONDERING ABOUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT
ARE THE DEMOGRAPHIC OF THE
PEOPLE THAT LIVE THERE?
HAVE YOU SEEN PARKING
CHALLENGES ON THAT SITE?
IS THE SAME PARKING RATIO I&apos;M
JUST KIND OF TRYING TO SUSS OUT
ANY SORT OF CONCERNS ABOUT THE
LIMITED NUMBER PERCEIVED
LIMITED NUMBER OF PARKING
SPACES FOR THE NUMBER OF UNITS
PARTICULARLY YOU KNOW.
FORTY SEVEN TWO BEDROOM UNITS
ARE THE PEOPLE THAT ARE GOING
TO BE LIVING ARE GOING TO HAVE
TWO CARS.
&gt;&gt; ARE WE GOING TO SEE
SPILLOVER?
SO IN MY DISCUSSIONS WITH THE
OWNER THE ANSWER IS SOME OF THE
TWO UNITS HAVE A SINGLE CAR AND
SOME OF THEM HAVE TWO CARS
OF THE CURRENT BUT THE EXISTING
PHASE ONE IF YOU WILL OF ONE
HEAD UP A RATIO OF ABOUT ONE
POINT SEVEN.
I THINK PARKING SPACES PER
DWELLING IN THIS VERSION.
WE&apos;VE SCALED THAT DOWN ABOUT
ONE POINT TO SEVEN.
SO IT IS A REDUCTION FROM THE
FIRST ONE BUT THEY&apos;RE CONNECTED
AND SO THEY CAN BE SHARED
CORRECT.
SO AND THE OTHER CONSIDERATION
IS THAT THE INSTALLED SPACES
WON&apos;T BE A PERMANENT PARKING
SPACE.
TENANTS WILL ROTATE WHILE
CHARGING IN OUT OF THOSE.
SO SO THAT&apos;S WHY
WE NEED TO
HAVE A BIT MORE THAN THE ONE
PER APARTMENT REQUIREMENT FOR
THE OPPOSITION DISTRICT SO THAT
WE HAVE ENOUGH SPACES SO THAT
THE RESIDENTS WHO FACE THIS
CURRENT PROJECT IS TO IN MY
OWNERS MIND HAVE THE ABILITY TO
PARK BUT ALSO TJOKKIE THE
PEOPLE FROM PHASE ONE IN AND
OUT OF THE PARKING SPACES.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
I JUST UNDERSCORE THE
ELECTRIFICATION I THINK WE
CAN&apos;T REQUIRE IT BUT ANYTHING
YOU CAN DO TO LOOK INTO THAT I
WOULD NOT PHONE AN INDUCTION SO
BUT I REALLY WANT AN INDUCTION
SO I THINK PEOPLE ARE REALLY WE
REALLY GRAVITATE TOWARDS THAT
AS AN AMENITY IN THE BUILDING
PLUS JUST NOT PUTTING GAS IN TO
THE BUILDING IS ACTUALLY
OBVIOUSLY GREAT FOR OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS IN THE
CITY.
AND I WOULD AGREE WITH
COMMISSIONER GARY RANDALL.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT CORNER IS
RIGHT FOR I SEE WHY PEOPLE
WOULD WANT YOU KNOW, THERE&apos;S A
LACK OF GREEN SPACE.
IT&apos;S YOU HAVE TO CROSS ROADS IN
ORDER TO GET TO ANY OF THE
PARKS.
BUT I WOULD REALLY ENCOURAGE
THOSE ROOFTOP AT MINIMUM THE
ROOFTOP OPEN SPACES FOR PEOPLE
TO BE ABLE TO GET ASIDE AND
ENJOY THAT IS IT.
THANK YOU.
OTHERS GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER
APRON&apos;S NO.
YES THAT&apos;S ME.
THAT&apos;S YOU.
IT IS.
I&apos;LL JUST ADD MY VOICE TO THE
CHORUS OF PEOPLE URGING YOU TO
CONSIDER FULL BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION FOR THIS
PROJECT BEYOND JUST THE STOVES
AND AS THE PUBLIC COMMENTER
MENTIONED AT THE BEGINNING,
THIS ARCHITECT YOUR ARCHITECT
HAS WORKED ON PROJECTS AND SO
YOU HAVE EXPERTIZE ALREADY ON
THE TEAM FOR FULL BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION AND I THINK,
YOU KNOW, I WOULD URGE YOU TO
DO IT NOT BECAUSE IT&apos;S REQUIRED
OF YOU BUT BECAUSE IT&apos;S THE
RESPONSIBLE THING TO DO AND THE
ETHICAL THING TO DO.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GOING TO CHIME IN ALONG
THOSE SAME LINES BUT ALSO JUST
TO SAY THE STAFF REPORT
SUGGESTED THAT THE PETITIONER
WILL BE PREPARED TO DISCUSS
SUSTAINABILITY ITEMS AT THE
MEETING AND I&apos;M CURIOUS WHAT
CONSIDERATIONS HAVE BEEN GIVEN
OTHER THAN WE HAVEN&apos;T THOUGHT
ABOUT IT ENTIRELY.
WE NEED TO LOOK MORE INTO
ELECTRIFICATION.
WHAT DISCUSSION ARE THERE OTHER
ELEMENTS OF SUSTAINABILITY THAT
YOU HAVE THOUGHT ABOUT THAT WE
THAT YOU CAN SHARE WITH US
?
I WOULD I WOULD JUST DEFER TO
WHAT WHAT WE SAID EARLIER IS
THAT HE IS CONSIDERING ALL
OPTIONS AND THIS PROJECT IS
SUCH THAT HE&apos;S NOT ANTICIPATING
BEGINNING CONSTRUCTION
DOCUMENTS UNTIL NEXT YEAR.
SO IF SO, PERHAPS IT&apos;S A LONG
WAY OFF IN HIS THINKING TO MAKE
A COMMITMENT.
BUT HE IS NOT OBJECTING TO
DOING ELECTRIFICATION.
IT IS ONE OPTION HE WILL BE
CONSIDERING.
I CAN&apos;T SAY ANYTHING MORE THAN
HE&apos;S ALREADY SAID.
&gt;&gt; OK, I&apos;M SORRY.
I WAS JUST THINKING THAT THERE
WOULD HAVE BEEN MORE MORE
DISCUSSION TO SHARE WITH US
ALONG ALONG WITH
ELECTRIFICATION AGAIN IN
PARTICULARLY IN PARTS OF THE
ROOF WHERE THERE MAY NOT BE IF
YOU ARE NOT OFFERING THAT
AMENITY AREA.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR ROOFTOP SOLAR.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S ALSO AN AMENITY THAT
COULD BE OFFERED IN SOLAR
CARPORTS THAT PAIR VERY NICELY
ACTUALLY WITH ELECTRIC VEHICLE
CHARGING.
SO THAT&apos;S ANOTHER OPTION AND
STAFF CAN SUGGEST THE PROCESS
IF SOLAR CARPORTS WERE ADDED
LATER.
I DON&apos;T THAT DOESN&apos;T REQUIRE
COMING BACK TO US.
SO THAT IS TO LET YOU KNOW
ABOUT THAT FLEXIBILITY THAT OUR
CODE OFFERS.
THOSE ARE THE THE THE THINGS
THAT I WOULD RATTLE OFF AGAIN
ELECTRIFICATION WOULD BE MY
PRIORITY HERE BUT SOLAR IS ALSO
SOMETHING TO CONSIDER THE
ECONOMICS OF THAT ARE CHANGING.
SO PARTICULARLY IF IT&apos;S GOING
TO BE A YEAR FROM NOW, THAT&apos;S
THE PRICES HAVE BEEN DROPPING
PRECIPITOUSLY AS HAVE THE
EXPERIENCE CURVE ALONG WITH
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION AND SO
KIND OF WHAT ELECTRIC HEATING
SYSTEMS MIGHT LOOK LIKE TODAY
PRICE WISE I YOU KNOW, I WOULD
EXPECT THOSE PRICES TO COME
DOWN IN THE YEAR SO I WOULD NOT
JUST CONSIDER IT TODAY BUT IF
YOU AREN&apos;T GOING TO BE FULLY
READY TO DO TO BREAK GROUND FOR
ANOTHER YEAR, GIVE IT A LOOK
THEN TO INITIALLY AS I WAS
REVIEWING THIS I WAS THINKING
TO MYSELF WHY ARE THESE
BUILDINGS ONLY THREE STORIES
AND NOT FOUR AND AND I THINK IT
WAS BECAUSE THIS WAS IN THE
SLIDES TONIGHT THAT THERE IS AN
AFFAIR.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;RE PRETTY CLOSE TO
MAXING OUT THE ARE EVEN SO I&apos;M
CURIOUS IF IF YOU CONSIDERED
CONSOLIDATING INTO TWO
BUILDINGS THAT WERE FOUR
STORIES IF THAT WAS A
CONSIDERATION AT ALL WHEN WE
DID THE ANALYSIS OF PUTTING ALL
OF THE FIRE INTO TWO BUILDINGS
,WE WE BREACHED A HEIGHT LIMIT
THAT WOULD TRIGGER THOSE CODES
IN THE BUILDING AND ALSO PUSH
US OVER THE VERY LIMITED HEIGHT
IN THE OFFICE ZONING DISTRICT.
OK, THIS FORTY ONE A WHOLE
DIFFERENT BALLGAME.
OK, I WAS JUST CURIOUS IF YOU
KNOW I KNOW THAT IT&apos;S LIMITED
AT FOUR STORIES BUT I DIDN&apos;T
KNOW IF FOUR STORY SLIGHTLY
LARGER BUILDING WOULD HAVE
ALLOWED FOR MORE CREATIVITY IN
TERMS OF SITE DESIGN I WOULD
ALSO ECHO THAT I AM REALLY
EXCITED THAT THIS IS A SECOND
PHASE THAT THESE PARKING LOTS
ARE CONNECTED, THAT THERE&apos;S
THIS OPPORTUNITY FOR SHARING
PARKING IN AN AREA WHERE YOU
KNOW IT SO THAT YOU DON&apos;T HAVE
TO MAKE DO ON YOUR OWN WHAT&apos;S
CONSIDERED CONTINGENCIES AND
BUILDING IN EXCESS.
BUT THE IDEA THAT WE&apos;RE SHARING
ACROSS I THINK THAT WAS ONE
OF THE ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
WHEN I SAW THIS I WAS
PARTICULARLY EXCITED ABOUT
ESPECIALLY THANK YOU FOR
SHARING KIND OF WHAT THE
PARKING RATIO ARE HERE COMPARED
TO THE NEIGHBORING LOT.
&gt;&gt; THOSE WERE MY COMMENTS OTHER
COMMENTS QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER LEE, GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
I HAVE SOME JUST THE CLERICAL
THINGS SHEETS SEX SITE PLAN,
UTILITY PLAN, THE OUTLET
CONTROL STRUCTURE IS MISSING A
T I JUST KIND OF VERY, VERY
SMALL NUANCE THING.
I THINK THERE WAS JUST A
MISSPELLING JUST WANTED TO
POINT OUT TO YOU GUYS OVERALL
FROM A NEIGHBORHOOD BUILDING
CONTINUITY STANDPOINT I THINK
IF IT&apos;S A NEIGHBORHOOD PRETTY
WELL THREE A THREE STORY LOW
RISE I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE SEEN
SOME OF THE BUILDINGS BE KIND
OF CLOSER TO THE STREET IF
POSSIBLE.
I KNOW THERE&apos;S A WETLANDS THAT
OBVIOUSLY MAKES IT DIFFICULT
BUT AS IT&apos;S A BUSY INTERSECTION
AS PEOPLE HAVE TALKING ABOUT
ACTIVATION AND UTILITY OF THAT
CORNER, WE ALL KNOW THAT THE
BUILT ENVIRONMENT INFLUENCES
HUMAN BEHAVIOR SO WOULD YOU
LIKE TO SEE A LITTLE MORE I
GUESS YOU KNOW, TOWARDS THE
STREET SLOWED DOWN A BIT,
CREATE A SENSE OF ARRIVAL AS
YOU&apos;RE GOING DOWN MILLER
TOWARDS DOWNTOWN.
&gt;&gt; BUT OVERALL, YOU KNOW, I
THINK I&apos;M OK WITH THE YOU KNOW
WHAT I&apos;M SEEING HERE FOR
CLARIFICATION THERE&apos;S NO
ELEVATOR IN THIS BUILDING.
I DIDN&apos;T SEE IT ON THE FLOOR
PLAN ON A HORIZONTAL AND
VERTICAL PENETRATIONS.
SO OK, GOTCHA
UNDERSTAND BETTER
WHAT TO SAY WHETHER IT&apos;S A
GARDEN OR SOMETHING THAT YOU
KNOW, CREATES A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF BEAUTIFICATION BECAUSE I
KNOW THAT THIS IS A BIG ENTRY
POINT OF ANYBODY GETTING OFF,
YOU KNOW, 14 AND PLENTY
OF REASONS THAT PEOPLE WANT TO
LIVE HERE.
GOOD BIKE CONNECTIVITY OVERALL
IN SUPPORT BUT YEAH, FEEL FREE
TO RESPOND TO THAT.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
ONE OF THE COMPANIES THAT MY
CLIENT OWNS IS A LANDSCAPING
COMPANY.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH, I&apos;M SURE IT WILL
END UP VERY NICE.
GOTTA KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S GREAT
BIAP AND THEN OBVIOUSLY
SUSTAINABILITY THE THING THAT I
WILL SAY ON BEHALF OF THE
PETITIONERS BRINGING 70 UNITS
IN TOWN WILL HELP YOU KNOW,
REGIONAL TRIP ALLEVIATION SON
COGGS AS YOU KNOW, AVERAGE
COMMUTE TIMES ABOUT TWENTY FIVE
MINUTES.
SO IF WE CAN BRING MORE PEOPLE
TO ANN ARBOR THERE&apos;S A HIGHER
LIKELIHOOD THAT THEY&apos;LL ENGAGE
IN USING BIKES AS OPPOSED, YOU
KNOW, CARS.
SO I THINK THERE&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
OF THAT ELEMENT OF REGIONAL
ALLEVIATION, OBVIOUSLY THE
BUILDING FORM.
WE DO HOPE TO SEE, YOU KNOW,
GREATER UTILIZATION
OF ELECTRIFICATION.
I KNOW IT&apos;S A BALANCING
AFFORDABILITY.
SO OVERALL TEN MILLION DOLLARS
FOR 78000 SQUARE FEET ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY SIX SQUARE FOOT.
GOOD LUCK HITTING ITS
CONSTRUCTION NUMBERS.
THAT&apos;S YOU KNOW THAT SEEMS LIKE
A VERY OPTIMISTIC NUMBER GIVEN
THE CURRENT MARKET.
BUT I&apos;M OVERALL IN SUPPORT
OF WHAT I SEE.
I DO ECHO EVERYONE&apos;S SENTIMENT
THAT OBVIOUSLY ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABLE TO ZERO PLANS ARE
PRETTY IMPORTANT.
SO OTHER THAN THAT, THOSE ARE
THE KIND OF CLERICAL COMMENTS I
HAD WITH RESPECT TO A THANK YOU
MANY OTHERS.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THIS ONE.
OH, GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER
BRANDELL, CAN I ASK A QUESTION?
MR. HART?
SO I&apos;M TRYING TO TRACK DOWN ONE
THING I JUST NOTICED IS THAT
THE SOILS ARE SEEMED PRETTY
HEIDRICH FROM WHAT I DON&apos;T I
WAS TRYING TO SEARCH FOR THE
THE WWF THE WOLOSKY OR WHATEVER
THAT ONE IS SERIES WHICH IS
FROM
WHAT I&apos;M REMEMBERING IT&apos;S
LIKE PRETTY HEIDRICK WHICH
MAKES SENSE GIVEN THAT IT&apos;S
RIGHT NEXT TO A WETLAND YOU
JUST WONDERING IF YOU HAVE TO
DO ANYTHING SORT OF SPECIAL TO
PROTECT PAVEMENT&apos;S AND AGAIN
JUST THINKING ABOUT LONGEVITY
AND THINKING ABOUT PUTTING
DRAINS DOING THEIR THING ALL
THE TIME AND JUST OTHER THINGS
THAT YOU NEED TO DO TO BE ABLE
TO MAKE SURE THAT PAVEMENTS ARE
BREAKING UP AND THAT YOU KNOW,
WHEN YOU ARE BUILDING THIS
THING THAT IT&apos;S ACTUALLY AGAIN
BUILT TO LAST AND THAT YOU&apos;RE
NOT HAVING ISSUES WITH OH NOW I
CAN ANSWER THAT AND VERY
BRIEFLY, THE ONE AREA WHERE
WE&apos;VE GOT THE UNDERGROUND
DETENTION AND OF COURSE THAT&apos;S
GOING TO BE FILLED WITH GRAVEL
SO THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE A VERY
WELL-TRAINED, WELL TRAINED AREA
.
THE DRIVE ON THE WEST WHICH
DOES NOT HAVE THE UNDERGROUND
DETENTION AND IT HAS
APPROXIMATELY I THINK IT&apos;S
ABOUT A FOUR PERCENT THAT
COMES ACROSS THAT.
SO WATER IS GOING TO BE
DRAINING OFF VERY QUICKLY FROM
THAT AREA I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT
FROM UNDERNEATH.
YEAH, JUST BECAUSE OF THE IF
IT&apos;S SUPER HEIDRICK AND IT&apos;S
SEASONALLY HIGH UM WELL THAT
AREA HAS GOT ABOUT FROM THE
FROM THE PROPERTY THE WEST TO
THE WETLANDS THERE IS ABOUT 15
FEET OF FALL SO IT&apos;S GOT A VERY
HIGH TO IT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF YOU&apos;LL SEE THE
WATER IN THOSE UPPER UPPER
SECTION OF THAT WITH THAT BUT
THE PAVEMENT ITSELF HAS GOT A
VERY GOOD.
SO THE THE THOUGHT IS GET THAT
WATER OFF THE PAVEMENT VERY
QUICKLY.
BUT YES, THERE IS NO WE DON&apos;T
HAVE ANY ANY STORM SEWER ON
THAT SIDE.
IT&apos;S ALL SURFACE FLOW SO THERE
IS NO THERE IS NO STORM
STRUCTURES TO TIE IN AND UNDER
TREINTA SO EVERYTHING WOULD GO
INTO YOUR STORMWATER SYSTEM
BASICALLY ANY KIND OF WITH
ANYTHING AT THE SURFACE GOING
IN.
I GUESS WHAT I&apos;M JUST THINKING
ABOUT AND AGAIN THIS REALLY
ISN&apos;T A PLANNING COMMISSION
ISSUE.
I GUESS IT&apos;S MORE JUST LIKE AN
AWARENESS OF AS YOU MOVE INTO
MORE SPECIFICS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT, THERE MAY BE THINGS YOU
NEED TO DO TO KIND OF PROTECT
THAT PAVEMENT FROM FROM JUST
GROUNDWATER SEASONALLY HIGH
GROUNDWATER, YOU KNOW, THAT MAY
END UP BREAKING IT UP FASTER
THAN IT WOULD NORMALLY IN TERMS
OF JUST METHOD AND AND HOW
YOU&apos;RE HANDLING BASE MATERIAL
AND DRAINAGE AND KIND
OF BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE MAY BE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO GET IN IN THAT
AREA.
YEAH.
TO PROTECT THAT.
WE&apos;LL GET INTO THAT AS FAR AS
YEAH.
THE DETAILED CONSTRUCTION
WE&apos;LL GET INTO THAT AS FAR AS
THINGS GO SO WE CAN TAKE A LOOK
THE DETAILED CONSTRUCTION
AT THAT.
THINGS GO SO WE CAN TAKE A LOOK
YEAH.
AT THAT.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
YEAH.
THIS IS A QUESTION FOR STAFF.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER.
MR. CROSS.
THIS IS A QUESTION FOR STAFF.
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE OR COULD
MR. CROSS.
YOU GIVE ME A SENSE OF THE
WOULD IT BE POSSIBLE OR COULD
EFFORT IT WOULD TAKE STAFF TO
YOU GIVE ME A SENSE OF THE
PRODUCE A SUSTAINABILITY SCORE
EFFORT IT WOULD TAKE STAFF TO
OR AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
PRODUCE A SUSTAINABILITY SCORE
SCORE FOR A DEVELOPMENT LIKE
OR AN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
THIS SO THAT WE WOULD HAVE A
SCORE FOR A DEVELOPMENT LIKE
SENSE OF IF THIS ISN&apos;T
THIS SO THAT WE WOULD HAVE A
ELECTRIFIED AND IT&apos;S DOING, YOU
SENSE OF IF THIS ISN&apos;T
KNOW, NATURAL GAS, HOW MUCH
ELECTRIFIED AND IT&apos;S DOING, YOU
CARBON ARE WE APPROVING WITH
KNOW, NATURAL GAS, HOW MUCH
THIS DEVELOPMENT LIKE IT?
CARBON ARE WE APPROVING WITH
&gt;&gt; IS THAT SOMETHING THAT WOULD
THIS DEVELOPMENT LIKE IT?
BE EASY FOR STAFF TO GET
&gt;&gt; IS THAT SOMETHING THAT WOULD
THROUGH LSI OR IS THAT
BE EASY FOR STAFF TO GET
SOMETHING THAT WOULD ADD A
THROUGH LSI OR IS THAT
MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE STAFF
SOMETHING THAT WOULD ADD A
REPORT COMMISSIONER WHICH I AM
MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE STAFF
HAPPY IF I COULD TAKE THAT I&apos;M
REPORT COMMISSIONER WHICH I AM
SORRY MR. CROSBY.
HAPPY IF I COULD TAKE THAT I&apos;M
YOU DON&apos;T GET TO ANSWER.
SORRY MR. CROSBY.
WELL, I MIGHT I&apos;LL LET HIM
YOU DON&apos;T GET TO ANSWER.
ANSWER AS WELL.
WELL, I MIGHT I&apos;LL LET HIM
SO AS PART OF OUR STANDARD
ANSWER AS WELL.
REVIEW OF PETITIONS NOW WE DO
SO AS PART OF OUR STANDARD
WE HAVE THE OFFICE
REVIEW OF PETITIONS NOW WE DO
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS
WE HAVE THE OFFICE
PROVIDE A REVIEW THESE SITE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATIONS
PLANS AS WELL.
PROVIDE A REVIEW THESE SITE
&gt;&gt; THEY EVALUATE THE PLANS
PLANS AS WELL.
ACCORDING TO THE CITY&apos;S TWO
&gt;&gt; THEY EVALUATE THE PLANS
CLIMATE NEUTRALITY PLAN, THE
ACCORDING TO THE CITY&apos;S TWO
DIFFERENTIAL AS WE TALKED ABOUT
CLIMATE NEUTRALITY PLAN, THE
HERE IS WE DON&apos;T HAVE UDC
DIFFERENTIAL AS WE TALKED ABOUT
STANDARDS TO HOLD THAT TO.
HERE IS WE DON&apos;T HAVE UDC
BUT YOU WILL FIND I THINK WHAT
STANDARDS TO HOLD THAT TO.
YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT IS AN
BUT YOU WILL FIND I THINK WHAT
EVALUATION OF THAT IN THE
YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT IS AN
SUPPORTING MATERIALS WHEN YOU
EVALUATION OF THAT IN THE
REVIEW A SITE PLAN.
SUPPORTING MATERIALS WHEN YOU
WE ARE AGAIN WE WERE HAVING TO
REVIEW A SITE PLAN.
MEASURE IT AGAINST THAT THOSE
WE ARE AGAIN WE WERE HAVING TO
THOSE PLANS IT IS IN IS ONLINE
MEASURE IT AGAINST THAT THOSE
AVAILABLE TYPICALLY WE DON&apos;T WE
THOSE PLANS IT IS IN IS ONLINE
DON&apos;T ATTACH EVERY STAFF REVIEW
AVAILABLE TYPICALLY WE DON&apos;T WE
IF THAT&apos;S YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED IN
DON&apos;T ATTACH EVERY STAFF REVIEW
THOUGH WE CAN DEFINITELY START
IF THAT&apos;S YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED IN
GETTING THAT RIGHT WITH EVERY
THOUGH WE CAN DEFINITELY START
DEVELOPMENT WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
GETTING THAT RIGHT WITH EVERY
THE SAME FIVE THINGS RIGHT.
DEVELOPMENT WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
AND IF WE COULD JUST GET A
THE SAME FIVE THINGS RIGHT.
SENSE RIGHT AWAY AND IN THE
AND IF WE COULD JUST GET A
STAFF REPORT IT SAID THAT WE
SENSE RIGHT AWAY AND IN THE
WERE GOING TO HAVE A
STAFF REPORT IT SAID THAT WE
CONVERSATION AROUND
WERE GOING TO HAVE A
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE
CONVERSATION AROUND
CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD AROUND
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE
SUSTAINABILITY WAS NO
CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD AROUND
CONVERSATION AROUND
SUSTAINABILITY WAS NO
SUSTAINABILITY.
CONVERSATION AROUND
SO THERE IS NO CONVERSATION
SUSTAINABILITY.
AROUND HEAT PUMPS.
SO THERE IS NO CONVERSATION
THERE IS NO CONVERSATION AROUND
AROUND HEAT PUMPS.
GEOTHERMAL WHETHER IN THE
THERE IS NO CONVERSATION AROUND
PARKING LOT THERE IS NO
GEOTHERMAL WHETHER IN THE
CONVERSATION AROUND SOLAR
PARKING LOT THERE IS NO
MOUNTED CARPORT.
CONVERSATION AROUND SOLAR
&gt;&gt; AND SO I JUST FEEL LIKE
MOUNTED CARPORT.
THEY&apos;RE IT&apos;S HARD TO FIGURE OUT
&gt;&gt; AND SO I JUST FEEL LIKE
HOW TO SUSS THIS OUT AND THEN
THEY&apos;RE IT&apos;S HARD TO FIGURE OUT
WE WIND UP HAVING THE SAME
HOW TO SUSS THIS OUT AND THEN
QUESTIONS WITH EVERY PETITIONER
WE WIND UP HAVING THE SAME
.
QUESTIONS WITH EVERY PETITIONER
SO IF LSI IS ALREADY DOING
.
THAT, IF WE COULD SEE THAT IF I
SO IF LSI IS ALREADY DOING
COULD IF NO ONE ELSE WANTS TO
THAT, IF WE COULD SEE THAT IF I
WAIT THEIR HEADS OK, WE COULD
COULD IF NO ONE ELSE WANTS TO
SEE THAT I THINK IT WOULD JUST
WAIT THEIR HEADS OK, WE COULD
PREPARE THESE QUESTIONS A
SEE THAT I THINK IT WOULD JUST
LITTLE BIT BETTER, ESPECIALLY
PREPARE THESE QUESTIONS A
WHEN THE PETITIONERS ARE SAYING
LITTLE BIT BETTER, ESPECIALLY
THINGS AROUND LIKE OH WE&apos;RE NOT
WHEN THE PETITIONERS ARE SAYING
SURE HOW IN OUR CLIMATE WE CAN
THINGS AROUND LIKE OH WE&apos;RE NOT
ADD A HEAT.
SURE HOW IN OUR CLIMATE WE CAN
WE&apos;VE HAD THAT CONVERSATION AND
ADD A HEAT.
I KNOW BECAUSE I REACHED OUT TO
WE&apos;VE HAD THAT CONVERSATION AND
DR. STULTS DIRECTLY AND SHE
I KNOW BECAUSE I REACHED OUT TO
SAID THERE ARE HEAT PUMPS THAT
DR. STULTS DIRECTLY AND SHE
WORK IN OUR CLIMATE THAT ARE
SAID THERE ARE HEAT PUMPS THAT
COST COMPETITIVE WITH OTHER
WORK IN OUR CLIMATE THAT ARE
HEATING SOURCES AND WHILE WE
COST COMPETITIVE WITH OTHER
ARE WORKING ON A PETITION OR
HEATING SOURCES AND WHILE WE
LOBBYING EFFORTS WITH THE STATE
ARE WORKING ON A PETITION OR
TO ALLOW US TO INCLUDE THESE
LOBBYING EFFORTS WITH THE STATE
KINDS OF THINGS IN OUR
TO ALLOW US TO INCLUDE THESE
CODE WHILE WE ARE ON THAT PATH,
KINDS OF THINGS IN OUR
I WOULD LIKE US TO SIGNAL TO
CODE WHILE WE ARE ON THAT PATH,
DEVELOPERS IN OUR COMMUNITY
I WOULD LIKE US TO SIGNAL TO
THAT THIS IS IMPORTANT AND THAT
DEVELOPERS IN OUR COMMUNITY
THEY SHOULD COME TO THIS BODY
THAT THIS IS IMPORTANT AND THAT
WITHIN ANSWER AND THE ANSWER
THEY SHOULD COME TO THIS BODY
COULD BE WE JUST DON&apos;T CARE.
WITHIN ANSWER AND THE ANSWER
BUT THEY SHOULD HAVE AN ANSWER
COULD BE WE JUST DON&apos;T CARE.
AND AND I JUST FEEL LIKE WE DID
BUT THEY SHOULD HAVE AN ANSWER
NOT GET AN ANSWER TONIGHT AND
AND AND I JUST FEEL LIKE WE DID
THAT IS THAT IS ABSOLUTELY
NOT GET AN ANSWER TONIGHT AND
DISAPPOINTING.
THAT IS THAT IS ABSOLUTELY
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
DISAPPOINTING.
AND I NEED TO CORRECT MYSELF AS
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
AS I&apos;M DISCUSSING THAT I&apos;M
AND I NEED TO CORRECT MYSELF AS
LOOKING IN A QUASI CORRECT ME
AS I&apos;M DISCUSSING THAT I&apos;M
IF I&apos;M WRONG I DON&apos;T SEE OR
LOOKING IN A QUASI CORRECT ME
SIZE REVIEW OF IT IF THAT&apos;S
IF I&apos;M WRONG I DON&apos;T SEE OR
SOMETHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO SEE
SIZE REVIEW OF IT IF THAT&apos;S
BEFORE YOU TAKE ACTION.
SOMETHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO SEE
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
BEFORE YOU TAKE ACTION.
DEFINITELY ARRANGE IS THAT AN
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT WE CAN
OVERSIGHT OR DO THEY NORMALLY
DEFINITELY ARRANGE IS THAT AN
DISSOLVE US?
OVERSIGHT OR DO THEY NORMALLY
&gt;&gt; I NORMALLY REVIEW THESE SO
DISSOLVE US?
IT&apos;S A RELATIVELY NEW PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; I NORMALLY REVIEW THESE SO
WE WE DESIGNATE A COUPLE
IT&apos;S A RELATIVELY NEW PROCESS.
OF CATEGORIES OF PROJECTS THAT
WE WE DESIGNATE A COUPLE
WE ARE SENDING TO OSSI FOR THAT
OF CATEGORIES OF PROJECTS THAT
REVIEW I I WOULD PROBABLY
WE ARE SENDING TO OSSI FOR THAT
REPORT BACK TO MY INSTINCT IS
REVIEW I I WOULD PROBABLY
THIS ONE SHOULD HAVE GONE TO
REPORT BACK TO MY INSTINCT IS
THEM FOR THAT REVIEW.
THIS ONE SHOULD HAVE GONE TO
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S SOMETHING I&apos;M
THEM FOR THAT REVIEW.
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP WITH IF
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S SOMETHING I&apos;M
YOU&apos;D LIKE THAT LEVEL OF DETAIL
HAPPY TO FOLLOW UP WITH IF
ABOUT HOW THIS SPECIFICALLY
YOU&apos;D LIKE THAT LEVEL OF DETAIL
RELATES TO THE CITY&apos;S
ABOUT HOW THIS SPECIFICALLY
CARBON NEUTRALITY AND ISN&apos;T
RELATES TO THE CITY&apos;S
THIS SOMETHING THAT&apos;S COMING
CARBON NEUTRALITY AND ISN&apos;T
LIKE WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
THIS SOMETHING THAT&apos;S COMING
REVIEWING THE BUILDINGS RIGHT.
LIKE WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
AND THAT WOULD OVERSIGHT IS
REVIEWING THE BUILDINGS RIGHT.
PLANNING WASN&apos;T THAT A
AND THAT WOULD OVERSIGHT IS
CONVERSATION AT COUNCIL AROUND
PLANNING WASN&apos;T THAT A
AND THE FEE STRUCTURE BEING
CONVERSATION AT COUNCIL AROUND
AROUND THAT WAS NOT IN SO MANY
AND THE FEE STRUCTURE BEING
ASPECTS TO THE
AROUND THAT WAS NOT IN SO MANY
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN,
ASPECTS TO THE
EVERYTHING FROM, YOU KNOW,
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN,
ADVOCACY AT THE STATE LEVEL TO
EVERYTHING FROM, YOU KNOW,
UPDATE BUILDING PLANS SO THAT
ADVOCACY AT THE STATE LEVEL TO
COMMUNITIES HAVE THE ABILITY TO
UPDATE BUILDING PLANS SO THAT
JUST REQUIRE THESE MORE
COMMUNITIES HAVE THE ABILITY TO
STANDARD BUILDING PERMIT
JUST REQUIRE THESE MORE
REQUIREMENTS.
STANDARD BUILDING PERMIT
&gt;&gt; BUT IN THE MEANTIME AGAIN
REQUIREMENTS.
BECAUSE I THINK IT IS
&gt;&gt; BUT IN THE MEANTIME AGAIN
OF INTEREST TO COMMISSIONS,
BECAUSE I THINK IT IS
THAT&apos;S WHERE WE&apos;VE STARTED THAT
OF INTEREST TO COMMISSIONS,
PROCESS.
THAT&apos;S WHERE WE&apos;VE STARTED THAT
I I WOULD SPECULATE THAT IT WAS
PROCESS.
AN OVERSIGHT IN THIS CASE.
I I WOULD SPECULATE THAT IT WAS
BUT I WANT TO GO BACK TO THE
AN OVERSIGHT IN THIS CASE.
DECISIONS THAT WE&apos;VE MADE ABOUT
BUT I WANT TO GO BACK TO THE
THE TYPES OF PROJECTS THAT WE
DECISIONS THAT WE&apos;VE MADE ABOUT
HAD FLAGGED FOR THAT REVIEW.
THE TYPES OF PROJECTS THAT WE
SORRY, NOT AT ALL.
HAD FLAGGED FOR THAT REVIEW.
DON&apos;T WORRY.
SORRY, NOT AT ALL.
UM I MEAN MY SENSE TO IS THAT
DON&apos;T WORRY.
BECAUSE THIS IS ADVISORY OR IT
UM I MEAN MY SENSE TO IS THAT
WOULD BE INFORMATIONAL THIS IS
BECAUSE THIS IS ADVISORY OR IT
MY SENSE THIS YEAR BUT YOU CAN
WOULD BE INFORMATIONAL THIS IS
CERTAINLY DISAGREE WITH ME AND
MY SENSE THIS YEAR BUT YOU CAN
THERE ARE NOT STANDARDS
CERTAINLY DISAGREE WITH ME AND
ASSOCIATED WITH AT THIS POINT
THERE ARE NOT STANDARDS
IT&apos;S GOOD INFORMATION AND I
ASSOCIATED WITH AT THIS POINT
AGREE THAT THIS WOULD BE
IT&apos;S GOOD INFORMATION AND I
FANTASTIC INFORMATION AMONG
AGREE THAT THIS WOULD BE
THOSE CLASS OF DEVELOPMENTS
FANTASTIC INFORMATION AMONG
WHERE WE ARE ASKING FOR IT TO
THOSE CLASS OF DEVELOPMENTS
SHARE THAT IN THE IN THE PLANS
WHERE WE ARE ASKING FOR IT TO
INCLUDING THAT IN THIS CASE I
SHARE THAT IN THE IN THE PLANS
WOULDN&apos;T I DO NOT FEEL
INCLUDING THAT IN THIS CASE I
COMFORTABLE HOLDING THIS UP
WOULDN&apos;T I DO NOT FEEL
BECAUSE THAT DOESN&apos;T CHANGE THE
COMFORTABLE HOLDING THIS UP
STANDARDS UPON WHICH WE TONIGHT
BECAUSE THAT DOESN&apos;T CHANGE THE
ARE BEING ASKED TO EVALUATE
STANDARDS UPON WHICH WE TONIGHT
THIS PROPOSAL.
ARE BEING ASKED TO EVALUATE
BUT I THINK IT WOULD HELP OUR
THIS PROPOSAL.
CONVERSATION, GUIDE OUR
BUT I THINK IT WOULD HELP OUR
CONVERSATION AND PROVIDE THE
CONVERSATION, GUIDE OUR
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IN THIS
CONVERSATION AND PROVIDE THE
AGAIN ADVISORY ROLE,
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IN THIS
EDUCATIONAL ROLE TO SOME EXTENT
AGAIN ADVISORY ROLE,
ELEVATING CONVERSATION FOR THE
EDUCATIONAL ROLE TO SOME EXTENT
FUTURE.
ELEVATING CONVERSATION FOR THE
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER DISH
FUTURE.
.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER DISH
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IN THAT VEIN I WANTED
.
TO BE SURE THAT I WAS FOLLOWING
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IN THAT VEIN I WANTED
BOTH WHAT OSA IS PROVIDING IN
TO BE SURE THAT I WAS FOLLOWING
THESE REPORTS CURRENTLY AND
BOTH WHAT OSA IS PROVIDING IN
WHAT COMMISSION WHICH WAS
THESE REPORTS CURRENTLY AND
INTERESTED HAVING BECAUSE I
WHAT COMMISSION WHICH WAS
HEARD THE IDEA OF A SCORE WHICH
INTERESTED HAVING BECAUSE I
IS INTERESTING I SUPPOSE BUT I
HEARD THE IDEA OF A SCORE WHICH
ALSO HEARD THE IDEA
IS INTERESTING I SUPPOSE BUT I
OF ALTERNATIVES IF YOU DID THIS
ALSO HEARD THE IDEA
AND THESE ALTERNATIVES CAN BE
OF ALTERNATIVES IF YOU DID THIS
DONE WITHOUT GREATER COST OR
AND THESE ALTERNATIVES CAN BE
WITH TEN PERCENT EXTRA COST OR
DONE WITHOUT GREATER COST OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO ME WOULD
WITH TEN PERCENT EXTRA COST OR
BE A LITTLE BIT MORE USEFUL
SOMETHING LIKE THAT TO ME WOULD
BECAUSE WHEN WE HAVE THESE
BE A LITTLE BIT MORE USEFUL
CONVERSATIONS THAT SOMETIMES
BECAUSE WHEN WE HAVE THESE
FEELS TO BE THE THING THAT&apos;S
CONVERSATIONS THAT SOMETIMES
MISSING LIKE OH WE HAVEN&apos;T DONE
FEELS TO BE THE THING THAT&apos;S
OUR RESEARCH AND WE&apos;RE NOT SURE
MISSING LIKE OH WE HAVEN&apos;T DONE
AND IT MIGHT ADD COST AND
OUR RESEARCH AND WE&apos;RE NOT SURE
WHATEVER.
AND IT MIGHT ADD COST AND
SO TO ME THE ALTERNATIVES WOULD
WHATEVER.
BE GREAT.
SO TO ME THE ALTERNATIVES WOULD
I GUESS WE COULD HAVE A SCORE.
BE GREAT.
IT&apos;S A LITTLE HARD TO SCORE
I GUESS WE COULD HAVE A SCORE.
WHEN YOU&apos;RE NOT WHEN YOU DON&apos;T
IT&apos;S A LITTLE HARD TO SCORE
HAVE STANDARDS
BUT OVER TIME WE
WOULD BE ABLE TO SAY OH YEAH,
YOU KNOW THE VALHALLA SCORES AT
X FOR THESE REASONS AND YOUR
PROJECT COMPARES FAVORABLY OR
UNFAVORABLY TO THAT PROJECT
THAT MIGHT BE USEFUL.
BUT TO ME FOR THE INFORMATIONAL
PART OF OUR CONVERSATION, THESE
ARE THE THINGS THAT YOU&apos;RE
DOING.
THESE ARE SOME THINGS ANY ONE
OF A MENU OF WHICH AS YOU BEGAN
TO ELUCIDATE TERMINALS WOULD
MAKE YOUR PROJECT MORE GREEN
AND THEY EXIST AND THEIR COST
THEY RAISE THE COST OF PROJECTS
ON AVERAGE X OR LOWER IT OVER
TIME BECAUSE OF THE ENERGY
SAVINGS IS AM I AT ALL MAKING
SENSE?
&gt;&gt; YOU ARE MAKING SENSE TO ME
AND DURING COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS OR JUST MORE EDUCATION
I CAN TELL YOU A STUDENT THAT I
WILL HAVE WORKING THAT I WILL
BE ADVISING WORKING WITH MR.
LEONARD THIS SUMMER THAT I
THINK WILL HELP MOVE TOWARDS
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SO COMMISSIONER GOOD RANDALL.
&gt;&gt; I THINK I THINK THIS IS A
REALLY INTRIGUING IDEA.
I&apos;M GLAD THAT WE&apos;RE DISCUSSING
THIS.
I THINK IN SOME WAYS IT COULD
BE SORT OF A SIMILAR ROLE TO
THE DESIGN REVIEW BOARD WHICH
ALSO DOESN&apos;T HAVE ANY KIND
OF WE JUST LOOK AT THEIR REPORT
THEY DON&apos;T THEY DON&apos;T PASS
ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; THEY DON&apos;T VOTE ON ANYTHING
BUT THEY GIVE US A REALLY GOOD
IDEA OF HOW THINGS FIT INTO THE
DOWNTOWN AND THEY HAVE A ROBUST
DISCUSSION ABOUT THIS.
AND SO I THINK THAT THEY DO
HAVE SOME STANDARDS BUT IT
WOULD BE INTERESTING MAYBE
COMPARISON FOR HOW TO KIND
OF STRUCTURE SOMETHING THAT
AGAIN THEY DON&apos;T NECESSARILY
HANG YOUR HAT ON SOMETHING
SPECIFIC AND THEY HAVE THEY&apos;RE
NOT VOTING ON ANYTHING BUT THEY
ARE LIKE A RECOMMENDING OR
WHATEVER AND I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT
JUST MAYBE SOME POTENTIAL WAY
TO THINK ABOUT THAT AS A ROLE
WITH THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
THERE&apos;S SOME SORT OF REPORT AND
AGAIN JUST TO BE ABLE TO
ADVANCE THE DISCUSSION BECAUSE
I THINK THAT&apos;S PART OF WHAT
WE&apos;RE MISSING HERE IS IS TO BE
ABLE TO KIND OF HAVE HAVE
SOMETHING ON WHICH WE CAN PIECE
OF DISCUSSION ON AND THE OTHER
THING THAT I&apos;M HEARING TOO
THOUGH IS IS JUST HAVING
RESOURCES FOR A DEVELOPER
BECAUSE THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
IS NEWER.
THIS IS NOT SOMETHING THAT MR.
MOORE DOES.
HE&apos;S NOT A MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
HE PROBABLY HAS SOME SENSE
OF HOW THINGS FIT TOGETHER.
BUT THAT&apos;S NOT HIS EXPERTIZE.
WE&apos;RE NOT WE DON&apos;T KNOW
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS, PEOPLE
THAT DO THESE SYSTEMS ARE NOT
PART OF THE BUILDING PROCESS UP
TO THIS POINT.
USUALLY THEY USUALLY COME WAY
LATER IN THE PROCESS IN TERMS
OF WHEN THINGS COME THROUGH SAY
TRANSMISSION.
THE BUILDINGS ARE NOT VERY
DESIGNED AT THIS POINT EVEN
THOUGH IT FEELS LIKE THEY ARE
THEY&apos;RE REALLY NOT.
I MEAN THERE&apos;S A LOT OF CHANGES
ALL THE GUTS HAVE TO BE
CREATED AND THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF FLOOR PLANS AND ALL KINDS
OF THINGS THAT SHIFT AND
CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JUST THOSE
PEOPLE HAVEN&apos;T EVEN BEEN
ENGAGED YET OFTENTIMES IN THIS
PROCESS.
AND SO HOW CAN WE SET UP
SOMETHING SO THAT THERE YOU
KNOW, I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT&apos;S LIKE
RECOMMENDATIONS OR HANDOUTS OR
GUIDANCE OR RESOURCES OR
SOMETHING THAT CAN KIND OF HELP
PEOPLE THINK ABOUT THESE
GENERAL PRINCIPLES EARLY ON
JUST TO BE ABLE TO BECAUSE LIKE
YOU KNOW MR. WERE SAYING WE MAY
NOT BE DOING CONSTRUCTION
DOCUMENTS FOR ANOTHER EIGHT
MONTHS.
YOU ON THAT AND THAT&apos;S WHEN
YOU&apos;RE REALLY GETTING INTO THE
GUTS OF ALL THIS DESIGN.
&gt;&gt; SO WHAT CAN WE DO AS A CITY
TO ELEVATE PEOPLE THAT DON&apos;T
THEY&apos;RE NOT THINKING ALONG
THESE LINES BUT WE WANT THEM TO
SO HOW CAN WE HELP THEM TO HOW
CAN WE I MEAN WITHOUT OF BEING
CRAZY, HOW CAN WE HELP THEM TO
BE ABLE BECAUSE ANYTHING NEW
FOR ANY OF US PEOPLE ANYTHING
THAT WE DO THIS NEW WE&apos;RE
ALWAYS LIKE JUST A SECOND.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE ABOUT THIS.
IT JUST WE&apos;RE HUMAN, RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT JUST TAKES SOME
TIME TO KIND OF THEY I&apos;M NOT
SURE IF I&apos;M READY FOR THAT.
SO HOW CAN WE MAKE THIS
SOMETHING THAT ISN&apos;T SO SCARY
AND NEW SO THAT PEOPLE CAN GET
THEIR HEADS AROUND IT AND JUST
HAVE SOME SENSE OF LIKE OH OK,
JUST A SECOND.
THERE ARE THESE OTHER EXAMPLES
OF WHERE PEOPLE ARE DOING THIS
AND THIS KIND OF CLIMATE AND
THEY HANDLED IT THIS WAY AND I
THINK IT CAN BE TRICKY ABOUT
THESE SYSTEMS IS THAT IT&apos;S NOT
A ONE SIZE FITS ALL THING AND
THAT&apos;S WHAT GETS HARD ABOUT IT.
SO I GUESS AGAIN DURING
COMMISSION BUSINESS, THE
PROPOSED BUSINESS THAT MAYBE WE
JUST START TO THINK ABOUT WAYS
THAT WE CAN BOTH HAVE THE
DISCUSSION BUT ALSO JUST HAVE
RESOURCES FOR PEOPLE SO THEY
CAN HAVE A DISCUSSION.
I MEAN WE WANT TO SET PEOPLE UP
FOR SUCCESS FOR THIS, NOT JUST
BE LIKE WELL WHY AREN&apos;T YOU
WHEN THEY&apos;RE LIKE WHOA, WHOA,
WHOA.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T EVEN KNOW WHAT THIS
IS ABOUT, YOU KNOW, SO SO
ANYWAY, I JUST WANT TO I
PROBABLY SHOULD HAVE SAVED THIS
FOR WHEN WE HAD THE COMMISSION
BUSINESS AT THE END BUT I KIND
OF WANT YOU ALL PRESENT HERE TO
HEAR THIS BECAUSE I FEEL AND
THE DEVELOPER YOU KNOW THAT IT
IS NEW BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT SO NEW
THAT IT&apos;S LIKE COMPLETELY BEING
TESTED AND NOBODY&apos;S DONE IT
BEFORE, YOU KNOW, SO I GET THE
HESITANCY.
&gt;&gt; BUT I ALSO THINK THAT
NUDGING FROM THE DESIGN TEAM TO
TO KIND OF SAY THIS IS THESE
THE THINGS THAT THESE PEOPLE
ARE EXPECTING.
WE&apos;LL HAVE CONVERSATIONS AROUND
AND YOU KIND OF NEED TO GET UP
TO SPEED ON SOME OF THESE
THINGS IN ORDER TO HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION.
SO I ALSO WANT TO SEND THAT
MESSAGE TO GO AHEAD, MR.
LARNER.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THE
SUSTAINABLE REVIEW ON THIS I
THINK WAS NOT IT WAS NOT AN
OVERSIGHT THAT I&apos;M LOOKING AT
THE DISTRIBUTION, THE PROJECT,
THE TYPOLOGY THAT WE HAVE
DETERMINED THAT WOULD BE
REVIEWED BY SUSTAINABLE YEAR
THOSE THAT HAVE A DISCRETIONARY
ASPECT TO THEM.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S THIS THIS IS A
TYPE PLAN BEING PROPOSED UNDER
THE UDC AND SO THOSE TYPES
OF PROJECTS HAVE NOT BEEN
FLAGGED FOR THAT REVIEW.
&gt;&gt; SO I WANT TO CLARIFY THAT
I
WOULD SUGGEST AS WE TALKED
ABOUT LET&apos;S HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT HOW TO
IMPROVE OUR SUSTAINABILITY
PROCESS OUTSIDE OF THIS
PETITION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS ON THIS
PETITION?
THERE ARE TWO MOTIONS AGAIN, I
THINK THAT WE CAN TAKE THEM
TOGETHER.
ALL RIGHT.
AND I THINK MR. LEONARD, WE ARE
READY FOR A VOTE.
COMMISSIONER BRANDELL.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SAUVé YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER LEA YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES COMMISSIONER WHICH YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS&apos;.
YES.
MOTION CARRIES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE ON TO ITEM EIGHT B THESE
ARE THE AMENDMENTS TO THE OFF
STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
WHICH WILL BE FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL.
THIS IS BUSINESS WE HAVE TAKEN
UPON OURSELVES AND SO BUT WE&apos;VE
TAKEN UPON OURSELVES I MEAN WE
DO NOT HAVE AN EXTERNAL
PETITIONER BUT THAT INSTEAD
STAFF WILL HELP WALK US THROUGH
THE KIND OF CHOICES THAT WE
HAVE BEEN MAKING ALONG THE WAY
AND ALL OF THE FANTASTIC WORK
THEY&apos;VE BEEN DOING TO PULL THIS
INFORMATION TOGETHER.
SO WHENEVER YOU ARE READY
GREAT.
&gt;&gt; MY NAME IS JEFF COHEN.
I&apos;VE BEEN ASSISTING BRET
LEONARD IN CREATING A STAFF
REPORT AND PROPOSING AMENDMENTS
TO OUR PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
YOU SHOULD HAVE IN YOUR PACKET
TWO ITEMS.
ONE WOULD BE A STAFF FOUR AND
TWO WOULD BE THE ACTUAL
PROPOSED AMENDMENT LANGUAGE.
I JUST WANT TO BRIEFLY
SUMMARIZE THE STAFF REPORT
WHICH INCLUDES A HISTORY AND
BACKGROUND SECTION.
IT INCLUDES PLANNING BACKGROUND
INFORMATION WHICH INCLUDES A
REFERENCE IN THE EIGHT TO ZERO
PLAN FOR CARBON NEUTRALITY THAT
CALLS FOR ELIMINATING PARKING
MINIMUMS AND SETTING LOW
PARKING MAXIMUMS.
I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
WE DID PROVIDE A SUMMARY
OF WHAT FOR COMPARISON CITIES
ARE REQUIRING FOR PARKING WHICH
IS SORT A HELPFUL COMPARISON.
WE ALSO INCLUDED SOME LOCAL
EXAMPLES OF OFF STREET PARKING
INCLUDING PARKING AT THREE
SPACES PER THOUSAND.
WE DID LEARN A FEW THINGS FROM
THIS EXERCISE ONE IS THAT WE WE
LEARNED THAT THE REQUIRED OR
LIMITING PARKING MAXIMUM TO
THREE SPACES PER THOUSAND WOULD
ALLOW QUITE A LOT OF PARKING
SPACES FOR RESIDENTIAL FOR
RETAIL IT WOULD PROBABLY COME
IN SOMEWHAT LOWER THAN WE
CURRENTLY HAVE BEEN SEEING IN
SHOPPING CENTERS LIKE ARBOR
HILLS SHOPPING CENTER AND HERE
ON VILLAGE SHOPPING CENTER.
ALSO THIS LIST DOES NOT INCLUDE
RESTAURANTS, FULL SERVICE
RESTAURANTS OF SAY FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET TYPICALLY
WOULD GENERATE A NEED FOR QUITE
A LOT OF PARKING SPACES WITH
THREE PER THOUSAND MIGHT BE
FIFTEEN PARKING SPACES.
SO WE DID LEARN A BIT FROM THAT
EXERCISE.
I DO WANT TO BRIEFLY SUMMARIZE
THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS ARE
THEY INCLUDE ELIMINATING
MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS
FOR ANY LAND USE IN ANY ZONING
DISTRICT, ESTABLISH A MAXIMUM
OF THREE PARKING SPACES PER ONE
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF FLOOR
IN THE DC ONE ZONING DISTRICT
REGARDLESS OF USE.
THOSE ARE THOSE ARE THE BIG
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS WE
ALSO ARE
PROPOSING TO CONSOLIDATE
PARKING USES IN THE UDC PARKING
TABLE.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO ELIMINATE
USES FROM THE PARKING TABLE
WHEN STANDARDS ARE UNLIKELY TO
APPLY SUCH AS PUBLIC SCHOOLS
AND GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO ELIMINATE
THE PROVISION OF REQUIRED
BICYCLE PARKING FROM BEING
PROVIDED OFF SITE.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO AMEND A
WEIGHT LIMIT OF VEHICLES
PROHIBITED IN DRIVEWAYS.
WE&apos;RE PROPOSING TO ADD A TABLE
TO COMMUNICATE SPECIAL PARKING
DISTRICTS SUCH AS D1, D2 AND
TCW ONE.
AND LASTLY WE&apos;RE AMENDING
REQUIREMENTS PROPOSED TO AMEND
REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRIC
VEHICLE INFRASTRUCTURE IN IN A
NUMBER OF A NUMBER OF WAYS.
SUPPORT SUMMARIZES ALL THAT.
AND LASTLY, I WANT TO
RECOMMENDATION STAFF RECOMMENDS
THAT THE AMENDMENTS TO THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE BE
APPROVED BECAUSE THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS WILL REDUCE THE
AMOUNT OF UNDERUTILIZED
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE SURFACES AND
ENCOURAGE LAND USERS TO BE USED
MORE EFFICIENTLY.
INCENTIVIZE THE CONSTRUCTION
OF NEW RESIDENTIAL DWELLING
UNITS BY REDUCING CONSTRUCTION
AND LAND ACQUISITION COSTS
WHICH MAY RESULT IN MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS BEING
CONSTRUCTED AND BY USING LAND
MORE EFFICIENTLY WE&apos;LL SUPPORT
TRANSIT SERVICE.
THESE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS ARE
ALSO CONSISTENT WITH THE
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THE CITY&apos;S
MASTER PLAN LAND USE ELEMENT
AND THE EIGHT TO ZERO CLIMATE
ACTION PLAN.
SO THAT THAT&apos;S THE CONCLUSION
OF MY STAFF SUMMARY.
&gt;&gt; MR. LEONARD AND I ARE HERE
TO ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU
MIGHT HAVE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH MR. CON
.
NOW I&apos;LL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS.
SO THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED CHANGES TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OFF STREET
PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
WELL, FIRST AGAIN, CALL ON
FOLKS THAT ARE HERE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS AND THEN MOVE TO
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
OPPORTUNITY.
IF YOU&apos;VE JOINED REMOTELY YOU
CAN USE THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
IF YOU JOIN THROUGH ZOOM IF
YOU&apos;RE WATCHING US NOW OUR DIAL
IN NUMBER IS EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND OUR MEETING ID IS
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIXTY SIX
THIRTY FOUR TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
ONCE YOU HAVE DIALED IN YOU CAN
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
TO INDICATE YOUR INTEREST IN
SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA AND
MUTE ANY BACKGROUND SOUND SO
THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY
AND WHETHER YOU ARE HERE IN
PERSON OR JOINING US REMOTELY
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE THAT&apos;S HERE IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS THAT WOULD
LIKE TO PROVIDE PUBLIC COMMENT?
COME ON UP
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS NANCY WOLF.
I LIVE ONE TWO TWO FIVE HER
DOWN ROAD I&apos;VE LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR MY ENTIRE LIFE BUT PART
OF THE REASON I&apos;M HERE IS I AM
THE PLANNING AND ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR FOR THE CITY
OF ECORSE AND WE DO NOT HAVE
ANY PARKING MINIMUMS AND IT&apos;S
FABULOUS.
SO I&apos;M REALLY HERE JUST TO
SUPPORT THAT WE HAVE IT FOR I
THINK ONE SINGLE LAND USE AND
THAT&apos;S AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS
HAVE TO HAVE TO ITS OUR MAX AND
MIN AND THAT&apos;S IT BUT
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING ELSE HAS ANY
PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND IT
SPEEDS UP THE DEVELOPMENT
PROCESS.
IT&apos;S EXCELLENT FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
THE MARKET IS NATURALLY SORTING
ITSELF OUT WHERE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE TOO MUCH PARKING ARE ABLE
TO SELL THEIR PROPERTY WHEREAS
OTHER PLACES THAT NEED PARKING
CAN PETITION FOR WHATEVER
AMOUNT THEY NEED.
WE DO HAVE MAXIMUMS AS WELL SO
IF YOU WANT A REALLY HIGH
NUMBER YOU HAVE TO GO BEFORE
THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
BUT YEAH, SO I&apos;M JUST HERE TO
SUPPORT THAT.
I KNOW IT&apos;S NOT REALLY USUAL IN
MICHIGAN YET AND JUST THE FACT
THAT I&apos;M A PLANNER FOR ONE
COMMUNITY THAT IS I WANTED TO
COME OUT AND SAY IT&apos;S GREAT AND
YOU KNOW, I CAN&apos;T SAY
EVERYTHING&apos;S PERFECT.
OF COURSE THINGS GO WRONG
SOMETIMES AND OCCASIONALLY
THERE&apos;S ISSUES AS YOU FIGURE
EVERYTHING OUT BUT THE JUMP IS
WORTH.
SO I&apos;M ENCOURAGING YOU TO MAKE
THAT JUMP.
THANK THANK YOU.
ANY OTHERS GO AHEAD.
HI.
MY NAME IS JOSH LURKEY.
I LIVE AT FIVE TO ONE SNYDER
OVER BY THE STADIUM I&apos;M FOR
ELIMINATING PARKING MINIMUMS
AND I&apos;M EXCITED THAT IT&apos;S
SOMETHING WE&apos;RE DISCUSSING.
CARS ARE WASTEFUL AND DANGEROUS
TRANSIT OPTION THAT POLLUTE OUR
CITIES, OUR LUNGS AND REQUIRE
COSTLY AND DESOLATE LAND USES
JUST TO COPE WITH THE AMOUNT
OF TRAFFIC AND OF COURSE
PARKING.
BUT ELIMINATING PARKING IS NOT
JUST ABOUT THAT.
IT&apos;S ABOUT MAKING DEVELOPMENT
MORE AFFORDABLE HIGH COST
OF PARKING SPACES PER ANY SORT
OF USE.
IT&apos;S ABOUT REDUCING SPRAWL AND
MAKING EASIER FOR PEOPLE WHO
AREN&apos;T IN CARS WHETHER THEY
WHETHER THEY CAN&apos;T USE A CAR,
CAN&apos;T AFFORD A CAR, DON&apos;T WANT
A CAR MAKES IT EASIER FOR THOSE
PEOPLE TO JUST LIVE THEIR
LIVES.
SO I&apos;M SUPER IN FAVOR OF THIS
AND I&apos;M JUST EXCITED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHERS, MR. GARBER?
YES, THANK YOU.
CHAIRMAN KEN GARBER AGAIN.
I&apos;M VERY PLEASED HIS SECOND
WORD, MISS WOLF AND MR. LURKEY
SAID I MAYBE HEARD ABOUT THE
DESIRABILITY OF ELIMINATING
PARKING MINIMUMS AND SETTING
PARKING MECHANISMS.
I DIDN&apos;T HAVE TIME TO REVIEW
THE STAFF REPORTS ARE JUST
BASED ON MR. KEARNS SUMMARY.
IT SOUNDS LIKE SETTING A
MAXIMUM OF THREE SPACES PER
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET BUILDING
SPACE WOULD WORK FOR A
COMMERCIAL MAYBE BUT NOT FOR
RESIDENTIAL AND YOU WOULD HAVE
TO SET A LOWER MAXIMUM FOR
MAYBE CONSIDER IF I&apos;M MEETING
IT RIGHT OR HEARING IT RIGHT
MAYBE CONSIDER SEPARATE
MAXIMUMS FOR RESIDENTIAL VERSUS
COMMERCIAL.
THAT&apos;S MY ONLY COMMENT AND I
REALLY ENCOURAGE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO GO FORWARD WITH
THIS AND MAYBE MISS WOLF IF SHE
STILL AROUND CAN TALK TO WHAT
THE MAXIMUM IS ALREADY CAUSE
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY OTHER TAKERS IN THE
AUDIENCE HERE, MR. LEONARD?
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE ANY ONLINE WE DO.
ALEX LOWE, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
ALEX LOWE.
YOU CAN GO AHEAD AND ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
.
WE&apos;LL TRY AGAIN.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S TRY IT AGAIN.
ALEX LOWE, YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CAME UP WITH AN
AFFORDABLE I&apos;M ALEX COHEN
TONIGHT FROM FERNWOOD AVENUE IN
SUPPORT OF THE CITYWIDE
REMOVEABLE POCKY M.A I THINK
THIS IS A WONDERFUL IDEA THAT
WILL MAKE INFILL DEVELOPMENT
FAR MORE FINANCIALLY VIABLE AND
WORK TOWARDS MANY OF THE CITY&apos;S
GOALS.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, I WOULD LIKE TO
REQUEST THAT YOU REDUCE THE
PARKING MAXIMUM FOR THE GC ONCE
THREE SPACES PER THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET STILL RESULTS IN AS
MUCH SPACE DEDICATED PARKING AS
THERE IS TOTAL FOR SPACE WHICH
IS CONTRARY TO THE INTENDED
PURPOSE OF TAXI ONE FROM THE
CITY OF ANOTHER&apos;S CURRENT
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE .
THIS DISTRICT IS BEING
CREATED TO FACILITATE,
ENCOURAGE AND SUPPORT
REDEVELOPMENT AND INFILL
DEVELOPMENT TO REVITALIZE MIXED
USE DEVELOPMENT AND ACHIEVE
MIXED USE CORRIDORS THAT
SUPPORT AND SUSTAIN TRANSIT
SERVICE PROVIDING AS MUCH SPACE
AS FOR PARKING AS THERE IS
SPACE FOR PEOPLE WILL STILL
MAINTAIN VERY MUCH A CAR
ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT.
WHILE THIS IS FINE IN SOME
AREAS TAXI ONE IS NOT THAT
SPACE NEED.
I THINK A MAXIMUM OF ONE MAYBE
TWO SPACES PER SQUARE FEET
WOULD LIKELY BE AMPLY
SUFFICIENT MAYBE UP TO TWO AND
HALF IN THAT EXTRA SPACE WERE
DEDICATED TO CAR-SHARING
FACILITIES, REDUCED PARKING AND
CAR-SHARING HAND IN HAND TO
REDUCE PRIVATE AUTOMOBILE
OWNERSHIP AND USAGE WHICH IS BY
FAR THE BEST WAY TO SUPPORT AND
SUSTAIN TRANSIT USAGE WHICH IS
THE PURPOSE OF TAXI ONE.
AS SUCH I STRONGLY BELIEVE THE
MAXIMUM OF CITIES SO FAR TO
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT THEN I WILL CLOSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND READ THE
MOTION.
LET&apos;S SEE
.
ALL RIGHT.
THE MOTION READS THE ENTIRE
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT
NINETEEN REGARDING PROPOSED
MODIFICATIONS TO THE CITY&apos;S OFF
STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LEA WHO WANTS TO
START?
MR. LEONARD, CAN I START
DISCUSSION PLEASE?
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANT TO MAYBE SET
A SET A COUPLE OF POINTS THAT
MAYBE WOULD HELP THE COMMISSION
CONTEMPLATE THIS ONE.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO I I WANT TO BE
FORTHRIGHT.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF OTHER
CHANGES IN THE ORDINANCE THAT
WE WILL WOULD NEED TO VISIT.
&gt;&gt; THESE CHANGES ARE ENACTED.
FOR EXAMPLE, WE HAVE SOME
SPECIAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS
AND SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR
DAYCARE CENTERS AND IN SOME
OTHER PLACES AND SO I JUST
WANT
TO BE FORTHRIGHT THAT WE
THOUGHT THAT THE DISCUSSION
OF SORT OF THE BIG PARKING
POLICY ASPECTS WAS FIRST THERE
MIGHT BE SOME SUBSEQUENT
CHANGES THAT WOULD BE
INCORPORATED AND ROLLED INTO
THAT FOR JUST REFERENCES AND
THE LIKE.
SO SO THAT&apos;S ONE PIECE AND THEN
I WANT TO TALK TO A LITTLE JUST
A COUPLE OF EXAMPLES ABOUT TAXI
ONE THE PROPOSED CHANGES HERE
IN TURKEY.
ONE WOULD RESULT IN ADDING
THIRTY ONE PARKING MAXIMUMS TO
USE AS PERMITTED IN THAT ONE
DISTRICT THAT DON&apos;T EXIST NOW
IT WOULD ALSO DECREASE PARKING
MAXIMUMS FOR 18 USES IN THAT
TAXI.
&gt;&gt; ONE DISTRICT UP THIRTY ONE
USES IN THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT
DO NOT CURRENTLY HAVE PARKING
MAXIMUMS.
&gt;&gt; EIGHTEEN THAT DO HAVE
PARKING MAXIMUMS WOULD BE
REDUCED AS AN EXAMPLE OF CITY
PLANNER CAN REFERENCE THIS WE
RECENTLY HAD A SITE PLAN
SUBMITTED THAT IT HASN&apos;T BEEN
ACCEPTED FOR REVIEW YET BUT IN
THE SOUTH STATE CORRIDOR FOR A
RESTAURANT THAT PROPOSED
RESTAURANT WAS ABOUT A 5000
SQUARE FOOT RESTAURANT.
THE EXAMPLE IS MR. KONGOS
INDICATING SO UNDER THE TAXI
ONE CURRENT MAXIMUM THAT WOULD
BE A MAXIMUM OF FIFTEEN SPACES
AS INDICATED THAT SITE PLAN WAS
PROPOSING ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SEVEN SPACES ON THAT
SITE PLAN.
SO I THINK ONE OF THE TENSIONS
AND I THINK YOU&apos;RE HEARING THIS
FROM FROM THE SPEAKERS AND I
THINK THAT YOU WILL PROBABLY
GET TO THIS IS THAT BY AND I
JUST WANT TO BE CLEAR STAFF HAS
BEEN VERY FORTHRIGHT TRYING TO
BUILD A SINGLE STANDARD FOR
THAT DISTRICT D1 AND D2 IN
ORDER TO PROVIDE FLEXIBILITY
FOR USES.
ONE OF THE ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES FOR ADAPTIVE REUSE
AT TIMES IS WHEN YOU ARE
SHIFTING FOUR FROM A SAY RETAIL
USE TO A RESTAURANT AND WHEN WE
HAVE DIFFERENT PARKING
STANDARDS IN A COMMERCIAL
DISTRICT FOR EXAMPLE THAT CAN
MAKE REUSE OF THAT BUILDING
DIFFERENT.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T NECESSARILY
THINK THAT WE TALKED ABOUT IT
HERE AT THE TABLE.
THE CONVERSION FROM RESIDENTIAL
IS PRETTY UNLIKELY.
THE CONVERSION TO RESIDENTIAL
FROM SOME TYPES OF USES CAN
HAPPEN.
I&apos;M NOT SAYING IT HAPPENS OFTEN
BUT I THINK THAT&apos;S ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THE COMMISSION
SHOULD CONSIDER IN THE CONTEXT
OF SOME OF THESE SPECIFICALLY
THE SPECIAL PARKING DISTRICT
FOR ONE, THIS NUMBER IS A
NUMBER THAT WAS PRESENTED AS A
MEANS OF TRYING TO FIND A
UNIFYING STANDARD SO THAT WE
COULD APPLY THAT STANDARD NOT
CARE ABOUT WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING IN
THAT FLOOR AREA AND NOT CARE TO
FUTURE CHOICES ABOUT HOW THAT
FLOOR AREA MIGHT EVOLVE.
&gt;&gt; WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO DO THAT.
WE COULD ELECT TO LOOK AT
DIFFERING STANDARDS FOR
RESIDENTIAL AND NONRESIDENTIAL
USES OR OTHERS.
SO I JUST WANT TO SET THAT
STAGE ABOUT I I GUESS PART
OF ME RECOGNIZES THAT I THINK
THAT THAT SINGLE STANDARD IS
IMPERFECT.
I THINK TO ADEQUATELY ADDRESS
ONE OF THOSE USES YOU&apos;RE
PROBABLY NOT ADDRESSING THE
CORE THE OTHER USE CORRECTLY SO
I JUST WANTED TO BE CLEAR IT
DOESN&apos;T HAVE TO GO IN THAT
REGARD BUT THAT WAS THE
INTENTION THAT WAS PRESENTED
AND DISCUSSED AT THE NRC AT THE
WORKING SESSION TO NOW IS TO
PROVIDE A SINGLE STANDARD TO
PROVIDE ULTIMATE FLEXIBILITY
AND UTILITY FOR THE EVOLUTION
OF THOSE BUILDINGS IN THAT
DISTRICT.
I AND I WOULD JUST ADD INTO
THAT THAT THE OTHER CAP THAT WE
HAVE REMINDING MYSELF THE OTHER
CAP THAT WE HAVE IN TCR IS NOT
JUST ABOUT WHAT THE MULTIPLIER
IS BUT THE ACTUAL AREA
OF ASSOCIATED WITH IT WHICH
MEANS THAT IT CANNOT EXCEED
EVEN THOUGH WE ARE EXPECTING WE
REQUIRE MULTIFAMILY OR
MULTISTORY BUILDINGS THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE PARKING CANNOT
EXCEED THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
FIRST FLOOR EFFECTIVELY OF THE
BUILDING.
SO THAT&apos;S ANOTHER CAP THAT WILL
BE HELD TO YES THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO SORRY I WANTED TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE ARE STARTING
OUR CONVERSATION ABOUT THAT
PARTICULAR ELEMENT WITH THAT IN
MIND COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S I
GUESS I HAVE A LOT OF THOUGHTS
ABOUT THIS.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW WHERE TO START
BUT MAYBE I MEAN IN TERMS OF A
UNIFIED STANDARD TO AVOID
CONSTRICTING ADAPTIVE REUSE IN
THE FUTURE OFFICE TO
RESIDENTIAL SEEMS LIKELY BUT
RESTAURANT OR RESIDENTIAL SEEMS
UNLIKELY LIKE I GUESS I&apos;M
WONDERING LIKE WOULD IT BE
POSSIBLE TO SO THAT&apos;S ONE
THOUGHT LIKE WOULD IT BE
POSSIBLE TO ACTUALLY PULL OUT A
COUPLE OF USES WHICH WE
UNDERSTAND TO BE EXCEPTIONS
WHEN IT COMES BOTH TO REUSE AND
TO PARKING PRESSURES AND SO
THAT WOULD BE ONE THING TO
CONSIDER.
BUT I GUESS MY OTHER THOUGHT
WHEN I HEAR ABOUT THIS PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT IS THAT WHAT WE ARE
HOPING FOR IN THESE CORRIDORS
IS DENSER DEVELOPMENT.
SO THE THE THREE PER THOUSAND
MIGHT BE VERY CONSTRICTING TO A
RESTAURANT USE BUT IF THEY HAD
RESIDENTIAL UNITS ABOVE THE
THREE THOUSAND IS VERY GENEROUS
AND THE POINT IS THAT THE
AVERAGE SHOULD BE ADEQUATE AND
RESPONSIBLE.
AND SO I GUESS BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T
KNOW WHAT THE RATIOS AND WHAT
THE I GUESS I&apos;M WONDERING MAYBE
I COULD DO SOME HELP FROM STAFF
OR EVEN OUR OTHER COMMISSIONERS
LIKE WITHOUT ACTUALLY LIKE
MODELING SCENARIO SCENARIOS HOW
HOW DO WE FEEL REASSURED THAT
THAT IT&apos;S THE RIGHT THAT WE&apos;RE
HITTING THE RIGHT TARGET SO I
THINK THE COMPARISONS IN THE
STAFF REPORT WERE VERY HELPFUL
BUT I OBSERVED THE SAME THING
THAT YOU POINTED OUT IN THE
PRESENTATION WHICH IS OBVIOUSLY
A RESIDENTIAL THREE PER
THOUSAND IS TOO HIGH.
NOBODY SHOULD BE BUILDING THAT
MANY.
THAT BUFFER IS IN THERE FOR
OTHER USES.
BUT MAYBE WHAT WE WANT TO DO IS
ENCOURAGE MIXED USE AND DENSE
DEVELOPMENT AND NOT ONE FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT RESTAURANT
WITH ONE HUNDRED THIRTY SPACES.
I GUESS THE OTHER THING I&apos;M
THINKING IS THE THREE FOUR
THOUSAND FIFTEEN I MEAN TEN
WOULD BE REALLY REALLY
CONSTRUCTED BUT FIFTEEN IS
STILL A FRACTION OF WHAT THEY
ARE WHAT THEY REALLY WOULD
WANT.
RIGHT WHAT YOU SAID ONE HUNDRED
AND SOMETHING SO IN SOME WAYS
IT&apos;S LIKE I DOESN&apos;T IF TWO PER
THOUSAND MADE SENSE AND EVERY
OTHER USE BUT RESTAURANT I&apos;M
NOT SURE WE SHOULD KEEP IT AT
THREE JUST FOR RESTAURANT IT
BUT IT DOESN&apos;T SOLVE THE
RESTAURANT&apos;S PROBLEM SO I&apos;M
RAMBLING A BIT BUT MAYBE JUST
TO TO SUM UP SO THAT WE CAN GET
I CAN GET SOME FEEDBACK LIKE
DENSITY AND MIXED USE VERSUS
SINGLE SINGLE USE FUTURE
PROOFING FOR ADAPTIVE REUSE
MAYBE WE DON&apos;T MAYBE WE PULL
RESTAURANT OUT THAT ARE THERE
OTHER USES BESIDES RESTAURANTS
THAT HAVE THAT EXCEPTIONAL
PARKING NEED AND MAYBE EVEN
THOUGH IT&apos;S DIFFICULT FOR THE
RESTAURANT I&apos;M NOT SURE MOVING
FROM THREE TO TWO ACTUALLY
PRODUCES MORE HARDSHIP FOR THEM
WHICH IS MAYBE A FUNNY WAY TO
THINK ABOUT IT.
BUT BECAUSE I THINK TWO MIGHT
MAKE MORE SENSE FOR OTHER USES
THAN THREE PER THOUSAND
WHERE
YOU ARE PUTTING THAT OUT THERE,
I THINK THAT WAS THERE I HEARD
A QUESTION FOR STAFF WHICH IS
AM I THINKING ABOUT THIS RIGHT
OR WAS THAT NOT INTENDED TO BE
A SO I GUESS THERE WAS A LOT IN
THERE.
MAYBE ONE QUESTION FOR STAFF,
OTHER USES OTHER THAN
RESTAURANTS THAT YOU SEE BEING
BURDENED BY THIS MAXIMUM THAT
MAYBE WE START I CAN TRY TO
ANSWER THAT.
WE DO KNOW THAT THERE ARE SOME
USES THAT DO GENERATE MORE
PARKING THAN ONE WOULD THINK
THAT WOULD GENERATE ONE WOULD
BE MEDICAL DENTAL OFFICE WHICH
TENDS TO HAVE A FAIRLY HIGH
STAFF RATIO AS WELL AS A HIGH
NUMBER OF OF PATIENTS VISITING.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT GROCERY
STORES TEND TO HAVE A LARGE
CAPTURE AREA AND PEOPLE TEND TO
SPEND QUITE A LOT OF TIME THERE
INSTEAD OF JUST GOING IN FOR
ONE ITEM PEOPLE MIGHT SPEND A
HALF AN HOUR OR FOUR OR LONGER.
SO WE DO KNOW THERE ARE SOME
USERS LIKE THAT THAT THAT WILL
GENERATE THAT KIND OF DEMAND.
ONE OF THE THINGS I DID
CONSIDER WHEN WHEN YOU BROUGHT
UP THIS SORT OF DIVERGENCE
OF DEMAND BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL
AND NONRESIDENTIAL IS A CONCEPT
OF POSTIN, I&apos;M GOING TO THROW
SOMETHING NEW IN THERE BUT IT&apos;S
SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF COMING UP WITH A
LOWER MAXIMUM FOR RESIDENTIAL
USES AND THEN THREE FOUR
THOUSAND FOR NONRESIDENTIAL
USES.
SO YOU WE CAN SORT OF CREATE
WHATEVER IS WE THINK IS IS
REASONABLE AND THAT&apos;S JUST AN
IDEA THAT I AFTER LISTENING TO
WHAT WHAT YOU HAD SAID ABOUT
THAT DEVIATION, MR. LEONARD
MIGHT HAVE SOMETHING TO ADD TO
THAT?
YEAH.
I MEAN I THINK THIS IS IT
RELATES TO THE QUESTION
OF CONVERSION LIKE I DO THINK
LIKE THAT THAT TYPE
OF APPROACH.
IF YOU WERE GOING TO COME UP
WITH TWO SCENARIOS FOR EXAMPLE
WHERE RESIDENTIAL WAS A
DIFFERENT RATE AND COMMERCIAL
USES WERE A HIGHER RATE,
ANOTHER EXAMPLE OF THAT I THINK
COULD BE OFFICE USES.
I THINK FROM A PROBABLY FROM I
I SUSPECT THAT PARKING
PROVISION IS PART OF OFFICE
MARKETABILITY THAT THERE ARE
THAT IS ONE OF THE FACTORS THAT
PEOPLE ARE THINKING ABOUT WHEN
THEY&apos;RE CHOOSING TO LOCATE AN
OFFICE.
IT IS WHAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
AVAILABLE TO THEM AND THAT IS
NOT SOMETHING THAT I PROFESS TO
KNOW WHAT THOSE NUMBERS ARE.
BUT I WOULD SPECULATE THAT IT&apos;S
A PRETTY FLUID THING RIGHT NOW
BETWEEN COVID I THINK THERE&apos;S
BEEN A TREND WHERE OUR OFFICES
HAVE STARTED TO BE UTILIZED IN
A MUCH MORE DENSE FASHION THAN
THEY HAVE HISTORICALLY.
BUT NOW OVER THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS I WOULDN&apos;T I COULDN&apos;T
GUESS WHAT THE REALITY IS GOING
TO BE SO
BUT GOING SO APART
FROM THAT OTHER EXAMPLE OF SORT
OF MAYBE A MORE PARKING
INTENSIVE USE FROM A MARKET
VALUE PERSPECTIVE, I THINK IF
WE WERE GOING TO ESTABLISH TWO
DIFFERENT STANDARDS THAT WOULD
BE PRETTY EASY TO REALIZE.
OBVIOUSLY THE ONE WE WOULD JUST
ESTABLISH THOSE WOULD COUNT UP
YOUR RESIDENTIAL AREA WOULD
COUNT UP YOUR NONRESIDENTIAL
FOR MAYBE APPLIED TO DIFFERENT
RATIOS AT THE END OF THE DAY,
IF WE&apos;RE SETTING THEM AS
MAXIMUMS, IT&apos;S STILL GOING TO
HAVE A LIMITING FACTOR ON THAT
CONVERSION.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU ARE
PROVIDING FORCE FOUR FLOORS
OF OFFICE AND FOUR FLOORS
OF RESIDENTIAL AND YOU COME
BACK AND YOU WANT TO CONVERT
ANOTHER FLOOR OF OFFICE TO
RESIDENTIAL IF THEY&apos;RE TRULY
MAXIMUMS WE CAN IMPROVE THAT
CONVERSION UNLESS YOU ELIMINATE
THAT PARKING SO SO THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S THE ARGUMENT FOR FINDING
A STANDARD THAT WORKS.
&gt;&gt; BUT AGAIN, I WANT TO BE
CLEAR I WE THERE&apos;S VERY I DON&apos;T
THINK THAT I DON&apos;T KNOW TO WHAT
EXTENT THAT WE WILL HAVE THAT
EVOLUTION OF USES IN THESE
CORRIDORS LIKE WE DO IN MAYBE
SINGLE STORY SMALLER SPACES
ALONG OUR COMMERCIAL CORRIDORS
IN OUR DOWNTOWN.
THAT&apos;S WHERE I THINK I&apos;M I&apos;M
SORT OF FUELED BY THAT
EXPERIENCE OF TRYING TO REUSE
OLD COMMERCIAL SPACES AND I
WANT TO AVOID I JUST WANT TO
AVOID MAKING IT HARDER.
TWENTY 30 50 YEARS DOWN THE
ROAD FROM HAVING THE SAME
FLEXIBILITY OF WHAT GETS
REALIZED HERE COMMISSIONER DISH
THEN COMMISSIONER LEE
OH LIKE
I&apos;M IN THE LIN SONG SEAT AND
SHE DIDN&apos;T TURN ON HER MIC LAST
NIGHT.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING.
SO I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING BETTER
THAT INDEED YOU ARE DOING WHAT
I&apos;M WHAT I WAS UNDERSTANDING TO
BE DOING.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHEN I LOOK AT THESE
NUMBERS THEY&apos;RE THEY&apos;RE A
LITTLE BIT HARD.
IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT HARD TO USE
THEM AS A GUIDEPOST.
BUT WHAT I NOTICE IS THAT THE
DISPARITY BETWEEN PARKING AT
THREE PER THOUSAND AND ACTUAL
PARKING SAY IN THE HURON
VILLAGE SHOPPING CENTER IT&apos;S
NOT THAT HIGH.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S 384 IS WHAT IT WOULD BE
AT THREE PER THOUSAND AND 411
IS WHAT THEY HAVE SO THAT&apos;S A
DIFFERENCE OF ABOUT THIRTY.
SO THAT&apos;S NOT BAD AND IT&apos;S A
LITTLE BIT HIGHER BUT NOT THAT
MUCH FOR OVER HILLS IT&apos;S
PARKING PROVIDED 328 PARKING AT
THREE PER THOUSAND TO EIGHTY
FIVE.
THAT DOESN&apos;T SEEM TO ME TO BE
DEVASTATING.
&gt;&gt; THE THE DIFFERENCES ARE
SOMETIMES SIX TO ONE IN THE
RESIDENTIAL ONES THAT YOU&apos;RE
CITING THE RESIDENTIAL EXAMPLES
THAT YOU&apos;RE CITING WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE ONE WHICH IS
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD, SHE SAYS
WITH JOY THE THE THE
DISPARITIES ARE REALLY HIGH.
I MEAN THEY&apos;RE REALLY LIKE THE
STANDARD SIX TO ONE BUT THOSE
ARE DOWNTOWN AND THEY&apos;RE
PRIMARILY STUDENTS AND THERE
ARE MANY, MANY DISINCENTIVES
FOR STUDENTS HAVING CARS WE
DON&apos;T GIVE THEM ANY PLACE TO
PARK THEM DOWNTOWN OR ON
CAMPUS.
SO WHY WOULD YOU DRIVE FROM THE
STANDARD TO YOUR CLASS WHEN YOU
ARE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
PARK EVEN AS CLOSE AS THE
STANDARD SO I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW TO
TREAT THE RESIDENTIAL EXAMPLES
THAT YOU&apos;VE GIVEN US.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THE DISPARITIES
ARE REALLY ARE AS WIDE BUT IF
SO IF I JUST TOOK ALL YOUR
NUMBERS AT FACE VALUE I WOULD
SAY WE&apos;RE DOING TOO MUCH TO
ADJUST FOR THE SHOPPING CENTER
BECAUSE THE DISPARITIES ARE NOT
THAT GREAT AND WE ARE WAY
OVERSHOOTING THE RESIDENTIAL
NEED BECAUSE THE DISPARITIES
ARE ENORMOUS GOLF LIKE
CAVERNOUS.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF MAYBE
SOME DIFFERENT EXAMPLES
OF PARKING AT PLACES THAT ARE A
LITTLE BIT FARTHER OUT WOULD BE
HELPFUL OR I&apos;M SURE YOU ALL
KNOW JUST IN YOUR HEADS ABOUT
HOW MANY PARKING SPACES YOU
KNOW WHAT PLACES TEND TO DO YOU
MR. MOORE WAS SAYING, YOU KNOW,
ONE POINT THREE ONE POINT SEVEN
THOSE ARE INTERESTING NUMBERS.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU KNOW THAT PUSHES ME
TOWARDS COULDN&apos;T WE TRY 2.5 AS
THE ONE NUMBER FITS ALL OR DO
WE THINK ABOUT TWO NUMBERS AS
COMMISSIONER JAMES WAS WAS
SUGGESTING?
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S THAT IS REALLY MORE
OF AN OBSERVATION AND IF BUT I
SUPPOSE I&apos;M SAYING WOULD YOU
WANT TO OFFER US SOME DIFFERENT
EXAMPLES OF RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE
THE ONES THAT YOU HAVE HERE
POSSIBLY EXAGGERATE THE
DISCREPANCY.
&gt;&gt; WE COULD CERTAINLY DO THAT.
ONE OF THE BASE STANDARDS FOR
MINIMUM PARKING AND MULTIFAMILY
IS ONE POINT FIVE PER THOUSAND
OR TWO EXCUSE ME PER DWELLING
UNIT OR TWO SPACES PER DWELLING
UNIT AND IF YOU&apos;RE AN APARTMENT
COMMUNITY AND YOU&apos;RE
CONSTRUCTING A ONE THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT UNIT, THESE
STANDARDS WOULD REQUIRE THREE
YOU KNOW, THE THESE THESE
STANDARDS WOULD WOULD REQUIRE
THREE THREE SPACES PER THOUSAND
.
&gt;&gt; SO WOW.
YEAH RIGHT.
YES.
BECAUSE ALLOW ALLOW BECAUSE NO
WE DO NOT REQUIRE ANYTHING
ANYMORE IF WE PASS SUGGESTS THE
APPROVAL OF THIS TONIGHT SO
THAT SEEMS HIGH FOR A TRANSIT
ZONE.
COMMISSIONER THEN I SAW
COMMISSIONER GIVE RANDALL THANK
YOU.
YEAH I COULD PROVIDE A LITTLE
BIT OF INSIGHT HERE AS FAR AS
COMMERCIAL LEASES BECAUSE MY MY
DAY JOB IS I GO THROUGH 110
OF THESE A YEAR SO FIRST OFF
THERE ARE YEAH.
OFFICES DEFINITELY A LARGE PART
OF WHAT PEOPLE ARE LOOKING FOR
IS DO I HAVE AVAILABILITY
OF PARKING.
SO THERE ARE OFTEN TIMES OR
MINIMUM LEASEHOLD INTERESTS
THAT THEY TRY TO DICTATE SAYING
I WANT TO LEASE THREE POINT SIX
SPACES PER THOUSAND, I WANT I
TOLD YOU ABOUT THE THERAPIST
GROUP THAT WE&apos;RE WORKING WITH
CURRENTLY.
WE HAVE AN ALIBI FOR THAT ONE
AT FOUR PER THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET OVER ON THE NORTHEAST
SIDE.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT FOR
EXAMPLE, SO LET ME ACTUALLY
REWIND JUST A LITTLE BIT.
I THINK ELIMINATING MINIMUMS
MAKES PERFECT SENSE.
I THINK MAXIMUMS HERE&apos;S KIND
OF THE WAY I THINK ABOUT IT THE
PARKING SPACES.
LET&apos;S TALK ABOUT FROM A REVENUE
GENERATION STANDPOINT RIGHT
DOWNTOWN WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT TWO
HUNDRED TWENTY DOLLARS A MONTH.
SO LET&apos;S LET&apos;S GO AHEAD AND
JUST I THINK THAT&apos;S ABOUT RIGHT
RIGHT TO 220 OR SO.
THAT&apos;S DDA RATES.
YEP.
SO TWO TWENTY TIMES TWELVE
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT TWENTY SIX
HUNDRED DOLLARS ON AN ANNUAL
BASIS LET&apos;S CALL IT NINE BY
TWENTY IS ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY
SQUARE FEET SO DOWNTOWN PARKING
SPOTS GENERATING ABOUT FOURTEEN
DOLLARS PER SQUARE FOOT ON A
REGULAR BASIS YOU KNOW
ESSENTIALLY OFFICE IS GOING FOR
ABOUT TWENTY FIVE THIRTY ON A
CLASS BUILDING MAYBE THIRTY
FIVE.
SO TO A DEVELOPER OR SOMEBODY
WHO&apos;S LOOKING AT A BILL THEY
DON&apos;T REALLY SEE PARKING LOTS
IT&apos;S SOMETHING LIKE OH I REALLY
WANT TO BUILD THIS RIGHT.
I DON&apos;T LIKE IT.
HECK YEAH I&apos;M TRYING TO BUILD
MORE SPOTS THEY TRY TO CATER TO
WHAT THE MARKET IS REQUIRING SO
I SAW A COMMISSION OR WE GOT
SOME COMMUNICATION ABOUT THE
GEORGE AND THE CONVERSION
OF THOSE RETAIL UNITS TO
RESIDENTIAL CURRENTLY.
RIGHT.
SO OBVIOUSLY THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF PUBLIC THAT&apos;S SAYING THEY
DON&apos;T WANT TO SEE THAT BIG
ORDER TO RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE
THEY DON&apos;T WANT TO FOOD DOESN&apos;T
THEY WANT AMENITIES SO ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT I LOOK AT
LOOK AT THE HYATT THAT WAS
BUILT ON STATE STREET.
THERE&apos;S A LAKE MICHIGAN CREDIT
UNION THEY TRY TO LEASE THAT
FOREVER.
IT WAS VERY DIFFICULT.
THERE&apos;S ONLY LIKE TEN SPOTS SO
ORIGINALLY THE HOTEL THOUGHT
I&apos;M GETTING A RESTAURANT IN
THERE JUST DID NOT HAPPEN
BECAUSE OF THE PARKING AS YOU
KNOW, RESTAURANT OWNER WANTED
TO TOUCH IT SO YOU&apos;RE RIGHT.
I THINK SEGMENTATION OF USERS
DOES MERIT SOME ADDITIONAL
CONSIDERATION CALLING IT A
BLANKET YOU KNOW, 2.5 I THINK
YOU REALLY HAVE TO LOOK AT HOW
IT REALLY SHAKES OUT.
BUT MY CONCERN WOULD BE THAT
RETAIL USERS OFFICE USERS WHO
DO SEE CERTAIN LEVEL I MEAN
LIKE IS WHAT THEY ASK FOR ON
ALAWI&apos;S BASICALLY AS THEY&apos;RE
NEGOTIATING OBVIOUSLY I DON&apos;T
THINK AGAIN I MEAN I THINK
SURFACE PARKING SPOTS ARE WHAT
35000 A SPOT UNDERGROUNDS USED
TO RUN EIGHTY THOUSAND A SPOT.
SO FROM LIKE A CAP RATE OR
CAPITALIZED PERSPECTIVE OF WHAT
A PARKING LOT IS WORTH RELATIVE
TO ITS COST.
SO WHAT KIND OF REVENUE
GENERATION IT HAS YOU&apos;RE JUST
NOT GOING TO GET THE KIND
OF LEVEL OF RETURN.
SO IT&apos;S LIKE IT&apos;S NOT NOBODY
GOES INTO A PROJECT SAYING YES,
I&apos;M GOING TO BUILD A TON
OF PARKING SPOTS AND THIS IS IS
GOING TO BE I THINK LIKE THEY
DON&apos;T WANT TO BUILD THEY ONLY
WANT TO BUILD AS MUCH AS IT
REQUIRES TO ATTRACT.
SO RETAIL RESTAURANTS, THEY
LOOK AT THEIR SALES SO
RETAILERS ARE COMPLETELY DRIVEN
BY SALES WHETHER YOU KNOW IT&apos;S
THEY LOOK AT A GROSS HEALTH
RATIO.
WHAT IS MY TOTAL SALES RELATIVE
TO MY TOTAL OCCUPANCY COST?
NOW WHEN YOU TAKE A LOOK AT
TOTAL SALES, IT&apos;S HOW MANY
PEOPLE CAN THEY GET THROUGH
THAT SPACE AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE?
SO FOR RESTAURANTS I MEAN YOU
LOOK AT DARDEN, THEY LITERALLY
HAVE THOSE ON THE TABLE
CHECKOUT MACHINES WHERE THEY&apos;RE
LIKE I WANT YOU TO MOVE QUICKER
DURING LUNCH.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THEY&apos;RE TRYING TO GET
PEOPLE TO MOVE QUICKER AND SO
GROCERY STORES AS YOU SAID OR
CERTAIN USES THAT PEOPLE TEND
TO TAKE THEIR TIMES AS LONG AS
THEY&apos;RE BUYING MORE MATERIALS.
RIGHT.
SO THAT&apos;S HOW RETAIL IS GOING
TO LOOK AT IT FROM A GROSS
SALES PERSPECTIVE AND TO DO
THAT THEY NEED TO HAVE PEOPLE
HAVE ACCESS NOW WE OBVIOUSLY
WANT THEM TO BE USING BUSSES,
BICYCLES.
WE WANT NON MOTORIZED OR LARGE
TRANSIT.
THE POINTS THAT I JUST WANTED
TO SAY IS THAT THE SEGMENTATION
VIEW SAYS DOES MERIT ADDITIONAL
THOUGHT THAT A BLANKET MAY MAKE
IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR RETAIL
AND AMENITIES
OF SPACES AND
THAT&apos;S KIND OF WHERE YOU SEE
HOW THE GEORGE IS REALLY.
YEAH, THEY SHOULD BE LOOKING AT
IT FROM A LET ME GET SOMEBODY
AND LET ME TAKE A CRACK AT JUST
PERCENTAGE RENT AND THEY SHOULD
BE TAKING A MUCH MORE
AGGRESSIVE STANCE OF HOW CAN I
GET RETAILERS TO TAKE A CHANCE
HERE NOW IF WE DON&apos;T HAVE YOU
KNOW THEY&apos;LL HAVE THEIR PARKING
REQUIREMENTS.
I MEAN IF YOU&apos;RE A TRADER JOE&apos;S
I IMAGINE THEY&apos;RE SAYING I
DON&apos;T WANT IT AT ALL.
&gt;&gt; I A LOT ME IN THE HEART BUT
THAT&apos;S IN JEST.
BUT I DO WANT US TO SERIOUSLY
THINK ABOUT YOU KNOW, IS THERE
I HAVEN&apos;T HEARD A SINGLE
BUILDER SAY I WANT TO BUILD
MORE PARKING SPOTS FOR THE HECK
OF IT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S ONLY TO REALLY MAKE
SURE THAT THEY HAVE THE
MARKETABILITY THEY NEED TO
CREATE REVENUE GENERATING
SPACE.
SO I WANT TO DO AT LEAST THROW
THAT OUT THERE SO THAT THERE&apos;S
ABOUT CLARITY SO I THINK
SEGMENTATION TO USE IS
DEFINITELY MERITS DISCUSSION
NONRESIDENTIAL VERSUS RETAIL
VERSUS RESTAURANT VERSUS OFFICE
OFFICE LEASES LITERALLY HAVE
THAT LEASEHOLD RESTRICTION
WHERE THEY SAY I NEED A MINIMUM
OF SO-AND-SO SPOTS AND IT&apos;S
GENERALLY BETWEEN THREE POINT
FOUR AND FOUR.
&gt;&gt; SO I HAD A SOFTWARE TENANT
WHO USED THE BENCH ALL OF THEIR
ENGINEERS THEIR REQUIREMENT WAS
SEVEN SPOTS PER THOUSAND.
&gt;&gt; I COULD NOT DO IT FOR THEM.
SO THEY LEFT THEY LEFT THE
COMMUNITY.
THEY ENTERED KIND OF ON
OUTSKIRTS WHERE THEY COULD
ACTUALLY GET THAT.
SO I JUST DID SOMETHING THAT I
WANT TO BE ABLE TO COMMUNICATE
BECAUSE IT&apos;S RELEVANT
INFORMATION BECAUSE YOU KNOW, I
JUST I LIVE IN THIS AREA PRETTY
MUCH SO I&apos;M ALL IN SUPPORT
OF ELIMINATION OF THE MINIMUM
MINIMUMS.
I THINK THAT IS IT&apos;S A NO
BRAINER MOVE THE IMPOSITION
OF , YOU KNOW, MAXIMUMS IS
SOMETHING I THINK WE SHOULD
THINK ABOUT.
IT MERITS FURTHER DISCUSSIONS.
I CERTAINLY HEAR PEOPLE SAYING
HEY, LIKE FOR RESIDENTIAL WE
SHOULDN&apos;T HAVE THAT MUCH AT ALL
.
AND I AGAIN I THINK IT COMES
DOWN TO SEGMENTATION TO USE AND
I DO WANT TO ECHO WHAT KIRK
WESTFALL HAD SAID WAS YOU KNOW
SOMETHING WHEN IT&apos;S URBAN OR
SUBURBAN.
RIGHT.
AND SO WE WANT TO MOVE TOWARDS
THAT URBAN FORM.
I ALSO DON&apos;T WANT FIRST FLOOR
RETAIL BEING EMPTY FOR THREE OR
FOUR YEARS BECAUSE THE RETAILER
IS TOO OLD SCHOOL TO GIVE THIS
A TRY.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST JUST WANTED TO
THROW THAT OUT THERE THAT YOU
KNOW, HATE CHANGE AND PATTERNS
HAVE TO BE INCREMENTAL.
SO WE HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THE
CURRENT CONDITIONS OF WHAT WE
DEAL WITH FROM A SALES
PERSPECTIVE.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT HELPS FROM AN
INSIGHT PERSPECTIVE,
COMMISSIONER REHN, THAT WAS
SUPER HELPFUL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR THAT JUST
BECAUSE I THINK THAT WE&apos;RE
GUESSING AND A LOT OF STUFF
THIS TABLE AND TO HAVE THAT
KIND OF DATA COMING AT US IS
REALLY HELPFUL.
SO THANK FOR THAT.
I HAVE A REALLY HARD TIME WITH
THE ONE SIZE FITS ALL.
I STARTED LOOKING AT DIFFERENT
PLACES AROUND ANN ARBOR AND I
WAS JUST LIKE WOW I DON&apos;T KNOW
HOW I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW WE DO THAT
VERY EASILY BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE SO
WILDLY DIFFERENT AND IF MAYBE
TERMINALS IS THE ONLY ONE THAT
WAS HERE BUT FOR THE FOUR HOMES
BREWERY REMEMBER THAT LITTLE
SLIP THERE THAT WAS RETAIL,
RIGHT?
THAT WAS RETAIL AT THE TIME
BECAUSE OF HIS ESCAPE SHOP AND
THEN THE THE LIKE BASICALLY
SLIPPED UNDER THE WIRE AND IT
BECAME A RESTAURANT AND I HAVE
HEARD SO MANY NEIGHBORS
COMPLAINING ABOUT ALL THOSE
PEOPLE PARKING IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND BEING REALLY
LOUD AND SO THAT&apos;S YOU KNOW,
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A USE NEXT TO
USED TO ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; BUT IT&apos;S ALSO JUST SAYS
SOMETHING ABOUT THE AMOUNT
OF TRAFFIC IT COMES TO
RESTAURANTS WHICH IS REAL.
AND SO AND I KNOW PART OF WHAT
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO DO IS GET
PEOPLE TO GET OUT OF THEIR CARS
TOO.
AND I&apos;M A BIG BIKER AND A BIG
WALKER BUT I STILL DRIVE.
I DO I DON&apos;T LIKE I
OCCASIONALLY BIKE TO GET MY BIG
GROCERY SHOPPING BUT I DON&apos;T DO
THAT.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN I THINK THAT WE WE
NEED WE NEED TO KEEP OUR EYES
ON THE PRIZE ABOUT WHERE WE
WANT TO GO BUT WE ALSO NEED TO
BE REAL ABOUT WHERE WE ARE TO
AND THINK ABOUT HOW WE CAN GET
THERE AND SO RIGHT SIZING THIS
SO THAT WE&apos;RE LIKE ENCOURAGING
MAKING A LITTLE BIT
UNCOMFORTABLE BUT NOT TOTALLY
IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE I THINK
THINGS SITTING EMPTY FOR THREE
OR FOUR YEARS I THINK THAT&apos;S
POINTLESS.
&gt;&gt; I REALLY DO.
I WISH THAT WOMAN YOU WERE
TALKING TO WE&apos;RE STILL HERE
BECAUSE I WOULD LOVE TO ASK HOW
THEY SOLVED THE PARKING MAXIMUM
SAYING AND WHAT ISSUES THAT
THEY RUN UP AGAINST AND BE
REALLY CURIOUS TO SEE HOW THEY
RIGHTSIZED THAT.
SO I I KIND OF FEEL LIKE WE
NEED TO GET MORE SPECIFIC ABOUT
IT BECAUSE IT JUST FEELS LIKE
IT&apos;S DIFFICULT TO FIND THE THE
GOLDILOCKS AND HAVE IT ADDRESS
THE THINGS ON THE OUTSIDE
OF THAT IT SEEMS RIDICULOUSLY
OVERBUILT IF IT&apos;S RESIDENTIAL
AND THEN IT SEEMS REALLY BUILT
FOR SOME OF THE OTHER USES THAT
WE MIGHT WANT TO BE ABLE TO GET
IN THERE.
SO I&apos;M HAVING A HARD TIME
FIGURING OUT HOW WE CAN KIND
OF MAKE THIS MAKE THIS WORK AND
I TOTALLY GET THE FLEXIBILITY
THING THAT I&apos;M IS NOT SURE HOW
THAT&apos;S ACTUALLY GOING TO WORK.
I ALSO THINK WE NEED TO BE LIKE
WE HAVE THIS STANDARD OF PER
UNIT FOR PARKING FOR
RESIDENTIAL AND THEN WE HAVE
THIS STANDARD OF PER SQUARE
FOOTAGE FOR THESE OTHER THINGS
AND IT REALLY DOES MAKE SENSE
AND A PER UNIT BASIS LIKE A
MULTIFAMILY PLACE IS GOING TO
BE TOTALLY DIFFERENT IN TERMS
OF LIKE A SINGLE PERSON WHO&apos;S
OUT OF SCHOOL AND IS, YOU KNOW,
WILLING TO TAKE THE BUS AND
ISN&apos;T SCHLEPPING KIDS TO SOCCER
PRACTICE AND STUFF LIKE THAT.
IT&apos;S LIKE SO THERE&apos;S THAT WHOLE
PIECE THAT TO THAT ISN&apos;T ONE
SIZE FITS ALL IN TERMS OF THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE WE OF APPLYING
THINGS TO SOME KIND
OF STRUGGLING WITH THAT AS WELL
.
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS ARE THERE ANY
PLACES THAT HAVE NO MAXIMUMS
AND NO MINIMUMS?
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS THAT LOOK LIKE?
HARTFORD SO FAR BUT ONLY IN A
TRANSIT TRANSIT ZONE WHICH IS
WHAT WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT, WHICH
IS WHAT WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M JUST LIKE JUST BASED ON
WHAT COMMISSIONER IS SAYING AND
I&apos;M I&apos;M NOT SAYING THIS IS WHAT
I BELIEVE.
I&apos;M JUST ASKING THE QUESTION
WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE TO HAVE
IS IT ALWAYS GOING TO BE THE
5000 SQUARE FOOT RESTAURANT
SAYS I WANT ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SEVEN PARKING SPACES
WHICH SEEMS CRAZY TO ME BUT I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S REALLY
GOING TO HAPPEN THAT OFTEN
GIVEN THE COST AND THE
STORMWATER AND ALL THE OTHER
THINGS THAT YOU&apos;RE GOING TO BE
REQUIRED TO DO THAT OR IS THERE
A WAY TO LET THERE BE MAXIMUMS
TO HAVE THERE BE INCENTIVES
THAT SORT OF STEER YOU TOWARDS
DOING LESS?
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
IT&apos;S JUST SOMETHING THIS IT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT I I THINK THAT&apos;S
WORTH IT FOR US TO TALK ABOUT
THAT I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I GUESS I JUST I THINK IT&apos;S
WORTH DISCUSSING TO SEE WHAT
THAT WHAT WOULD THAT REALLY
LOOK LIKE?
ARE THERE OTHER PLACES BESIDES
HARTFORD WHAT ARE THE ISSUES
REALLY WE CAN KIND OF IMAGINE
THINGS BUT WHAT IS IT LIKE BUT
WHAT DOES IT REALLY LOOK LIKE?
&gt;&gt; I SAW HANDS OVER HERE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL COME BACK TO YOU
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
COMMISSIONER WHICH SO JUST SO
I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING CORRECTLY I
THINK I&apos;VE BEEN FOLLOWING ALONG
WE&apos;RE ONLY CONSIDERING THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF A MAXIMUM IN
THE T ONE AND THE T ONE ALREADY
HAS RESTRICTIONS FOR PARKING SO
THAT FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT
RESTAURANT ON A SINGLE FLOOR
WOULD ONLY BE ABLE TO CREATE A
PARKING LOT OF FIVE THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET WHICH AT ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY SQUARE FEET
WOULD BE TWENTY SEVEN SPOTS AS
OPPOSED TO FIFTEEN YOU KNOW
BASED ON THE THE OTHER
CALCULATION OF THREE PER
THOUSAND.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT IS THAT REALLY ALL
WE&apos;RE DISCUSSING AS IT EXISTS
IN THIS AMENDMENT AND THEN SO
BECAUSE I WANT TO ANSWER THAT
LIKE CAN I GET A YES OR NO I
MAY MAYBE SO I THINK YES JUST
WHEN YOU&apos;RE CALCULATING THAT
YOU&apos;VE GOT TO YOU KNOW IT&apos;S NOT
IT&apos;S NOT STACKING SPACES INTO
THAT SPACE.
YOU&apos;RE PROBABLY NOT GETTING
THERE WITH MANEUVERING AND THE
LIKE BECAUSE THAT&apos;S A MATTER
OF VEHICULAR USE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
SO THERE MAY BE A FEW MORE OK,
GREAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO THEN WOULD IT BE BENEFICIAL
TO US TO REMOVE THIS AMENDMENT
FROM THE COHORT SO THAT WE
COULD APPROVE WHAT WE WHAT I
THINK WE ARE ALL IN AGREEMENT
WITH WHICH ARE THE REST OF THE
AMENDMENTS AND THEN GIVE US
TIME TO WORK THROUGH THIS
BECAUSE IT FEELS LIKE IT&apos;S ONLY
IN THE TICK ONE.
SO IF IT&apos;S ONLY IN THE TICK ONE
THEN THE ISSUE IS ABOUT THE
RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T
WANT TO MAXIMIZE OR CREATE MORE
PARKING BECAUSE OF RESIDENTIAL
BEING MEASURED BY UNIT AND NOT
BY SQUARE FOOT AND SO THERE&apos;S A
GIVE IN THAT SO I&apos;M JUST TRYING
TO LIKE REALLY DOVE INTO WHERE
WE ARE NOW AND AND I&apos;D BE HAPPY
TO MOVE THAT WE PULL THIS
ESTABLISHMENT OF A PARKING
MAXIMUM OUT OF THIS PROPOSAL SO
THAT WE CAN APPROVE WHAT STAFF
HAS PRESENTED TO US WHICH I
THINK WE&apos;RE ALL IN AGREEMENT
WITH AND THEN WE COULD CONTINUE
TO DEBATE IT TONIGHT OR
POSTPONE IT SO THAT WE COULD
MOVE AHEAD.
SO IS THAT FRIENDLY TO THE BODY
OR IS THAT NOT FRIENDLY TO THE
BODY?
&gt;&gt; NO, IT IS NOT FRIENDLY TO
THE BODY.
OK, GREAT.
&gt;&gt; SO SO THE BODY WANTS TO HAVE
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE THREE
PER SQUARE FOOT
THOUSAND IN
THIS GROUP HERE WHERE I&apos;M IF I
MAY YEAH.
MY UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT YOU&apos;RE
PROPOSING COMMISSIONER WHICH
WOULD ACTUALLY BE MOVING AT
LEAST TEMPORARILY TO A
SITUATION THAT COMMISSIONER
ABRAMS POINTED OUT IS WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENED IN HARTFORD WHERE
THEY&apos;RE IN THAT TRANSIT
DISTRICT BECAUSE RIGHT NOW THE
DISTRICT IS BASED ON, YOU KNOW,
TAKING THE MINIMUMS AND MAKING
THE MAXIMUM.
&gt;&gt; IN DOING THIS WE WOULD HAVE
A TIME PERIOD WHERE IN DC ONE
THERE WOULD BE NO MAXIMUM AT
ALL.
AND SO EXCEPT FOR THE SQUARE
FOOTAGE AREA WHICH IS WHERE I
STARTED BECAUSE I SIMILARLY I
WOULD SAY THAT I AM NOT
TERRIBLY WORRIED ABOUT IT
BECAUSE I THINK THAT FROM A
FORM PERSPECTIVE WE GOT
OURSELVES COVERED .
THIS IS LIKE AND SUSPENDERS AND
I AND I OR NO BELT AND
SUSPENDERS BELT AND SUSPENDERS
BOOTS AND SUSPENDERS BOOTS AND
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHATEVER YEAH
YEAH.
WAITERS YEAH YEAH I THAT&apos;S MY
PERSONAL OPINION SO I ACTUALLY
I&apos;M NOT I&apos;M I I I&apos;M NOT SO
CONCERNED I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S
A LOT OF MERIT IN THAT
PARTICULARLY LIKE I DON&apos;T KNOW
IF THREE IS TOO HIGH OR TOO LOW
PERSONALLY BUT I&apos;M NOT SO
WORRIED BECAUSE I DO THINK WE
HAVE OURSELVES COVERED IN OTHER
WAYS BUT I JUST WANT TO MAKE
THAT&apos;S IS THAT MY
INTERPRETATION?
&gt;&gt; IS THAT RIGHT?
LET ME DEFER.
BUT THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHAT I
THOUGHT AND I THOUGHT YOU WERE
CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
YOU STARTED THIS I MEAN ANOTHER
WAY TO DO IT WOULD BE NOT TO
HAVE ANY PARKING REQUIREMENTS
FOR TAXI ONE HAVE THE PARKING
MANAGED BY FORM IT&apos;S WE&apos;RE
LIMITING WE&apos;RE LIMITING THE
FOOTPRINT OF PARKING BASED
RELATIVE TO THE FOOTPRINT
OF CONSTRUCTION ON THE SITE,
THE LAYERING OF THE LIKE YOU
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO LAYER RATIOS
WITH THAT.
&gt;&gt; WE COULD SIMPLY LEAVE THAT
AS A REQUIRED THAT WE DON&apos;T
CARE HOW MANY SPACES WE PROVIDE
AS LONG AS IT IS IN A FOOTPRINT
EQUAL OR SMALLER TO THE
BUILDING.
KNOCK YOURSELF OUT.
YEAH OK BUT BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S STILL
A VEHICULAR USE AREA SO YOU
DON&apos;T GET TO DOUBLE DIP BY
STRUCTURING YOU COULD PUT IT IN
A STRUCTURE TO MIMIC PARKING
DEMAND FOR THE BUILDING SO SO
ACTUALLY CAN YOU CLARIFY THAT
SO IF UH LET&apos;S SAY YOUR LOT IS
I DON&apos;T KNOW FIVE ACRES IF YOU
IF YOUR BUILDING IS TWO ACRES
YOU CAN&apos;T HAVE PARKING IT&apos;S
MORE THAN TWO ACRES IS IT WHAT
IF YOU STICK IT UP LET ME GET
I&apos;M GOING TO PULL UP THE
LANGUAGE.
YEAH RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE VERY LIMITING.
&gt;&gt; I REMEMBER THAT WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS BEFORE AND THE END
THE ONE IT SAYS VEHICULAR USE
AREA MAY NOT EXCEED ONE HUNDRED
PERCENT OR ONE HUNDRED AND
TWENTY FIVE PERCENT OF THE AREA
OF THE BUILDING&apos;S FOOTPRINT.
SO IT WAS LIKE THE VEHICULAR
USE AREA IS SEPARATE FROM THE
FOOTPRINT.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH, HELP ME UNDERSTAND
THAT BECAUSE I THINK THAT THAT
THAT EACH FLOOR IS TWO ACRES NO
EXACTLY.
IT DOESN&apos;T.
YEAH.
AND LIMITS THE AREA HAVE THE
TOTAL AREA SO IT IS IT IS VERY
RESTRICTIVE THE VEHICULAR USE
AREA WHICH IS THE AGGREGATE
OF YOUR PARKING AREA.
SO IF IT&apos;S A SURFACE LOT IT&apos;S
THE SURFACE IF IT&apos;S A TWO
STOREY PARKING STRUCTURE IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE THE THE AREA BOTH
OF THOSE LEVELS THAT CANNOT
EXCEED DEPENDING ON THE LOT
WITH EITHER ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
OR ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THE BUILDING
FOOTPRINT NOT FOOT FLOOR AREA.
SO THE BUILDING FOOTPRINT IS
LIMITING.
YOU CAN&apos;T YOU CAN&apos;T DESIGNATE
MORE SQUARE FOOTAGE TO PARKING
THAN YOU ARE THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE BUILDING AND FURTHER
BECAUSE WE REQUIRE A MINIMUM
OF TWO STOREY BUILDINGS THAT
MEANS THAT YOUR PARKING AREA IS
ALREADY IS ALREADY GOING TO BE
HALF OF THE FLOOR AT THE MOST
IT WILL BE HALF OF THE AREA,
HALF OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF YOUR BUILDING
POTENTIALLY.
&gt;&gt; SO THE FAST MATH IS IF YOU
DO TWO HUNDRED FIFTY SQUARE
FEET PER SPOT AND IT&apos;S ONE SPOT
LIKE FOUR PER THOUSAND BUT YOU
STACK YOU HAVE TWO STORIES
BUILDING YOU&apos;RE NOW TWO PER
FIVE HUNDRED RIGHT.
AND SO LIKE THE FOUR PER
THOUSAND IS MORE THAN THE THREE
THOUSAND SO IT&apos;S A SEPARATE
LIMITER IF YOU THINK ABOUT THAT
STACK THERE&apos;S TWO WHEN YOU
STACK THERE&apos;S FOUR WHEN YOU&apos;RE
FLAT WE&apos;RE AT THREE RIGHT IN
THE MIDDLE.
SO QUICK QUESTION.
SO IF YOU DO IF YOU STACK YOU
HAVE TO COUNT EACH FLOOR
SEPARATELY SO YOU CAN&apos;T JUST
SAY WELL MY FOOT, MY MY
WHATEVER HATMAKER BUILDING I&apos;M
PICKING UP A HAPPY OF SPACE.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M JUST GOING TO GO UP WITH
MY PARKING STRUCTURE.
YOU CAN&apos;T DO IT THAT WAY.
&gt;&gt; NO, THE INTENTION WAS MORE
PEOPLE AND USE LESS CARS.
I MEAN IN SOME WAYS IT&apos;S LIKE
IT&apos;D BE SO EXPENSIVE IT&apos;S KIND
OF WHY EVEN LIMIT IT BECAUSE
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO AUTOMATICALLY
YOU KNOW, SO VEHICULAR USE AREA
THOUGH TO THE TRICKY PART ABOUT
THAT IS THAT THAT INCLUDES YOUR
DRIVE.
SO REALLY BY HAVING THE PARKING
AREA AT THE BACK YOU&apos;RE MAKING
SO THAT YOU&apos;RE REALLY LIMITING
WHAT WHAT YOU CAN GET OUT
OF THAT.
AND THEN THEN THERE&apos;S THE
THINGS LIKE THE FIRE MARSHAL IS
MAKING US DO TO CURB CUTS AND
ALL OF THAT KIND OF STUFF WHICH
ARE THE REALITIES OF ARE WE
MAKING IS THAT WHAT DOES THAT
DO?
I GUESS IN THAT SCENARIO WHAT
DOES THAT REALLY LOOK LIKE IN
TERMS OF HOW THAT PLAYS OUT?
BECAUSE LIKE WE&apos;RE SAYING, IT&apos;S
NOT IS NOT PER PARKING SPACE.
IT&apos;S ALL OF THE OTHER STUFF YOU
HAVE TO HAVE IN A PARKING LOT
TO BE ABLE TO MAKE IT A PARKING
LOT.
AND HOW ARE YOU COUNTING ALL
THE PARKING ISLANDS?
IS THAT EVEN THOUGH THEY&apos;RE
INTERNAL ARE THEY PART OF YOUR
SQUARE FOOTAGE THAT YOU CAN
HAVE OR KNOW HOW DOES THAT WORK
BECAUSE THE SIZES ARE BASED ON,
YOU KNOW, MINIMUM SIZES TO BE
ABLE TO GET TREES IN THERE AND
ALL THAT KIND OF BUSINESS.
SO IS THAT PART OF YOUR
VEHICULAR USE AREA TOO OR NO,
THE AREA DEVOTED TO A USE BY OR
FOR MOTOR VEHICLES INCLUDING
PARKING OR STORAGE, ANY PAVED
AREA USED FOR ACCESS.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW HOW HAVE WE WE WE
PROBABLY TYPICALLY INCLUDE
INTERIOR ISLANDS IN THE OVERALL
AREA BUT NOT THE PERIMETER.
THEY ARE A REQUIREMENT OF OUR
LANDSCAPE SECTION OF CODE FOR
ALL PARKING LOTS.
IT&apos;S A STANDARD REQUIREMENT.
I WOULD INCLUDE THE LANDSCAPING
BUT IF CODE WERE SILENT I.
I WOULD I WOULD INCLUDE
LANDSCAPING BECAUSE THE
LANDSCAPING WITHIN THE LIKE YOU
HERE&apos;S MY HALF ACRE BUILDING
HERE&apos;S MY HALF ACRE PARKING
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO TAKE
OUT YOU KNOW, A FIFTH OF IT TO
BE ABLE TO PUT THE THE PARKING
LOT ISLANDS INTO THE I WOULD
NOT EXCLUDE THE PARKING THE
LANDSCAPE VIOLENCE I WOULD
INCLUDE THEM IF I WERE IF I
WERE CALCULATING THE SIZE OF OF
THE OF THE PARKING LOT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS WHERE I I DON&apos;T I
GUESS MY HESITATION IS THAT
PULL OUT THIS PIECE SO THAT WE
CAN MOVE ON.
I FEEL LIKE WE STILL HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT IT BECAUSE I WOULD
BE REALLY CURIOUS TO SEE LIKE
LET&apos;S REALLY LAYOUT WHAT THAT
LOOKS LIKE AND WHAT DOES IT
REALLY MEAN IN TERMS OF AN
EXAMPLE OF OF PARKING AND JUST
ALL THE STUFF WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT ABOUT HOW YOU DESIGN
THESE THINGS SHOULD BE PUNISHED
BASICALLY FOR HAVING A LARGE
LANDSCAPE ISLAND BECAUSE YOU
HAVE AN ODD SHAPED LOT?
YOU KNOW, I MEAN IT&apos;S LIKE THAT
TO ME I WOULD SAY THE LANDSCAPE
ISLANDS.
YES.
THEY&apos;RE PART OF THE HOLISTIC
IDEA OF A PARKING LOT BUT THAT
YOU SHOULDN&apos;T HAVE THIS COUNT
AGAINST YOU IF IF WERE I MEAN I
WOULD RATHER PULL THOSE OUT IN
TERMS OF JUST LIKE THE BAY AREA
BECAUSE THEN I THINK PEOPLE
JUST MAKE THEM AS TINY AS
POSSIBLE AND THEN THEN THE
TREES ARE UNHAPPY AND YOU KNOW,
I DON&apos;T KNOW TOO MANY
DEVELOPERS WHO PROVIDE MORE
LANDSCAPING THAN WOULD BE
REQUIRED FOR FOR A PARKING LOT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, BUT THERE&apos;S WAYS
THOUGH THAT I MEAN WE DO NOT
EVERYBODY DOES.
&gt;&gt; I GET THAT.
BUT IT&apos;S LIKE I JUST THINK THAT
I I WOULD WANT TO LIKE THE WAY
THAT I JUST FEEL LIKE WE&apos;RE
BEING PRETTY CAUTIOUS ABOUT
THIS
IN TERMS OF THE WAY THAT
IT&apos;S PLAYING OUT AND I JUST
FEEL LIKE WE NEED A LITTLE BIT
MORE OF A HERE&apos;S A REAL EXAMPLE
OF HOW IT WOULD ACTUALLY WORK
AND HOW IT WOULD FUNCTION IN
TERMS OF WHAT DO WE END UP WITH
IN WHAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S A TYPICAL
OFFICE RESTAURANT BELOW OFFICE
ABOVE YOU KNOW, SOMETHING LIKE
THAT TO SEE WHAT DOES THIS
REALLY LOOK LIKE AND IS THIS
TENABLE, YOU KNOW, IN TERMS
OF THE THE FOOTPRINT IDEA BEING
DEVOTED TO SOMETHING?
&gt;&gt; SO TO BE CLEAR, I JUST WANT
TO MAKE SURE WHAT YOU ARE
PROPOSING OR WHAT YOU&apos;RE
SUGGESTING YOU NEED MORE
INFORMATION ON COMMISSIONERSHIP
BRANDL IS NOT ACTUALLY THE
EDITS THAT ARE UP FOR THAT ARE
BEFORE US TONIGHT BUT ACTUALLY
THE REQUIREMENTS WITHIN ONE
BECAUSE WHAT YOU&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT LIKE AND THE CONCERN OVER
THAT IS ACTUALLY WITHIN ONE.
OK, I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
EVERYBODY LIKE THE THE PEOPLE
KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S YEAH.
THAT&apos;S NOT NECESSARILY THIS BUT
THIS RAISES BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT MAXIMUMS ENTIRELY
BECAUSE OF ONE WHICH IS RAISING
THIS IN YOUR MIND.
&gt;&gt; OK, GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER
SAUVé.
&gt;&gt; OTHERS SAY I&apos;M NOT CONCERNED
ABOUT ANY OF THIS.
&gt;&gt; TELL ME WHY.
SO I UNDERSTAND BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE
DESIGNING TO SO YEAH.
TELL ME SO I THINK A LOT OF IT
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THE SINGLE
USER ASPECT OF THIS WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO INCENTIVIZE HOUSING
IF HOUSING IS THE THING THAT
GIVES YOU THE MOST FLEXIBILITY
OF THE PARKING, NOT ABOUT THE
FOOTPRINT STUFF.
THAT&apos;S THE THING THAT GIVES
DEVELOPERS THE MOST FLEXIBILITY
TO BUILD THE MOST IN TERMS
OF THIS MAXIMUM AND THEY COULD
SHARE SOME OF THAT OVERFLOW
WITH THE COMMERCIAL SECTOR THAT
FEELS LIKE A GREAT BENEFIT TO
INCENTIVIZE HOUSING.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;RE DOING THIS.
WE WANT TO INCENTIVIZE
RESTAURANTS.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;RE DOING TO
SEE ONE TO INCENTIVIZE MORE
RETAIL THESE CORRIDORS WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO INCENTIVIZE HOUSING
AND CORRIDORS.
I CURRENTLY HAVE RESTAURANTS
AND RETAIL SO THAT&apos;S WHERE I
SEE THIS BLANKET GIVING THE
MOST FLEXIBILITY FOR DEVELOPERS
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO WITH
THEIR BUILDING OVER TIME
WITHOUT SUBSTANTIAL ADJUSTMENTS
TO SITE PLANNING TO BE ABLE TO
DO INTERIOR REMODELS WITHOUT
THROWING UP A BUNCH OF RED
FLAGS.
I THINK SIMILAR LIKE THE
LETTERS AT THE GEORGE THIS IS
ALL OUTSIDE OF TAXI ONE.
BUT WHAT YOU SEE IS MAYBE THAT
IS A BETTER USE AS RESIDENTIAL
BUT WITH THIS TALKING JUST
ABOUT REMOVING PARKING MINIMUM
REQUIREMENTS, THERE&apos;S A LOT
ALONG THAT CORRIDOR THAT COULD
PROVIDE MORE AND THE THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT RESTAURANT IS JUST
CRAZY BECAUSE OUR CURRENT
STANDARDS SAY WE JUST NEED
FIFTY PARKING SPACES AS A
MINIMUM.
&gt;&gt; SO ONE HUNDRED THIRTY OR
WHATEVER IS JUST IF WE TURNED
OUR MINIMUM INTO MAXIMUMS IT
WOULD BE FIFTY NOT ONE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY.
SO I&apos;M THROWING THAT DATA POINT
OUT THE WINDOW AND REFERENCES
FRAZIER AND YORK WHO BOTH DO
NOT MEET CURRENT PARKING
MINIMUMS AND SO OUR CURRENT
PARKING MINIMUMS AS MAXIMUMS IN
THE RESTAURANT EXAMPLE IS STILL
TOO MUCH TO WHAT MAKES A
SUCCESSFUL NEIGHBORHOOD JOINT
AND I THINK THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT HERE IN CERTAIN
CORRIDORS IS ADDING THAT LAYER
OF CHARACTER AND ACCESS TO
HOUSING SO THAT WE&apos;RE NOT JUST
OPERATING ON THE DOWNTOWN.
&gt;&gt; SO ONCE AGAIN THAT&apos;S I FEEL
LIKE RESTAURANTS AS AN OUTLIER
IS NOT ACTUALLY AN OUTLIER.
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT A DIFFERENT
SCALE OF INFUSION HERE.
WE&apos;RE NOT TALKING ABOUT THE BIG
KIND OF COMMERCIAL RESTAURANTS
THAT NEED LARGE SWATHS OF SPACE
.
UM, FIVE THOUSAND SQUARE
RESTAURANTS DON&apos;T CARE ABOUT
THEM BUT WE&apos;RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT TAXI ONE IF WE WANT TO
TALK ABOUT THE FOOTPRINT STUFF,
INCENTIVIZE HOUSING THE RATIO
MAKES SENSE TO GIVE THAT
FLEXIBILITY AND OVERALL I
SUPPORT THE REDUCTION
OF MINIMUMS EVERYWHERE TO GIVE
THAT FLEXIBLE REUSE AND
ADDITIONAL CORRIDORS.
SO LIKE I HAVE NO CONCERNS AT
THIS POINT THAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO
GIVE A LOT MORE PARKING TO
HOUSING AND THAT&apos;LL SHIFT TO
WHERE WE HAVEN&apos;T WON.
WE REQUIRE ALONG INTERSECTIONS
ONE LINEAR FEET OF COMMERCIAL.
SO IN OTHERS WE NEED TO GET
THAT BUFFER AND SO TO KEEP A
HIGHER MAXIMUM ALLOWS THAT
BUFFER TO OFFSET FOR THOSE
COMMERCIAL THAT IS REQUIRED IN
DC ONE AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO I FEEL GOOD ABOUT THIS
LAYERING RESTAURANTS ON TOP
LAYER IN RESTAURANTS.
YOU KNOW WE MIGHT HAVE OFFICE
ON THE SECOND FLOOR SORT
OF THING BUT I ACTUALLY DON&apos;T
SEE THAT HAPPENING
SIGNIFICANTLY IN SOME OF THESE
LIKE THE CORRIDORS I THINK SO
STATE IS MORE SUBSTANTIAL BUT
WE HAVE A TON OF PARKING THERE
NOW AND IT IS ONE OF THESE
TYPOLOGIES THAT COULD REALLY DO
THE SHARED PARKING BETWEEN
OFFICE DURING THE DAY, HOUSING
AT NIGHT.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE THAT SHARED
TIMELINE AND WE TALK ABOUT
THESE MORE CONCENTRATED
CORRIDORS.
&gt;&gt; WE ACTUALLY HAVE CLOSER
ADJACENCY TO HOUSING AND SO
LIKE THE AMOUNT OF PEOPLE THAT
ARE COMING THERE ARE COMING
MORE LOCALLY AND AGAIN
INCENTIVIZING ADDITIONAL
TRANSIT SORT OF THING.
SO THAT&apos;S MY TAKE.
I LOOK AT HOW IT IS AND IT&apos;S A
LIVING DOCUMENT THE SAME WE
WERE HAVING A CONVERSATION
RIGHT NOW THAT WE MIGHT GO BACK
TO TO SEE ONE THAT WE JUST PASS
IF THREE IN THIS INTERCHANGE WE
CAN CHANGE THREE BUT AT LEAST
WE HAVE A MAXIMUM INSTEAD OF AN
OPENING AT THE END OF THE YOU
CAN COME COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT SORRY I TOLD YOU
I WOULD COME BACK TO YOU AND
THEN I PROMPTLY FORGOT THAT
THAT IS LIKE A PERFECT SEGUE
WAY TO JUST WHAT I WANTED WHAT
I WANTED TO SORT OF BRING UP IS
THAT I BELIEVE IT&apos;S EITHER
MAYBE IT&apos;S ON OUR WORK PLAN TO
ACTUALLY LIKE THE NEXT STEP IN
THIS PARKING DISCUSSION IS TO
TALK ABOUT PARKING MAXIMUM
CITYWIDE.
AND SO IF I THINK THROUGH THAT
MORE DEEP ANALYSIS BY TYPE WE
WE LEARNED SOMETHING THAT MADE
US THINK LIKE OK, THIS THREE
THOUSAND IN TICK ONE DOESN&apos;T
MAKE SENSE.
WE NEED TO SEGMENT IT WILL HAVE
THE OPPORTUNITY TO DO THAT.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO EXPRESS SO
I TOLD MY HUSBAND EARLIER AND
LIKE WE&apos;RE ABOLISHING PARKING
MINIMUMS TODAY AND I JUST THINK
I&apos;M SUPER EXCITED BY THAT OR
WE&apos;RE RECOMMENDING THE
ABOLISHMENT PARKING MINIMUM
TONIGHT MAYBE HOPEFULLY I THINK
IT&apos;S A REALLY HUGE STEP FORWARD
JUST YOU KNOW, KIND
OF MIMICKING SO MANY OTHER
CITIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY THAT
HAVE DONE THIS AND WELL, MR.
MOORE STILL HERE THIS THIS
REMINDED ME WHILE WE WERE GOING
THROUGH THE PREVIOUS PETITION
YOU GUYS HAD PROPOSED EVVY
INSTALLED READY AND CAPABLE
OF THIS WOULD CHANGE THAT A
LITTLE BIT SO NO MORE BE READY.
IT&apos;S SIMPLIFIED SAYING THAT
PART OF THE EV REQUIREMENTS
THAT WOULD JUST BE INSTALLED
AND CAPABLE AND I THINK THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;LL HELP AND THEN CLARIFY A
LOT OF THINGS FOR PETITIONERS
AS WELL IN THE FUTURE.
SO I LOVE THIS.
I&apos;M EXCITED.
LET&apos;S DO IT.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR QUESTIONS
JUST ONE OF THE THINGS GO AHEAD
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; GIVE BRANDL AND THEN
COMMISSIONER IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A LOT
EASIER TO SEE YOUR HANDS ON
ZOOME HONESTLY THAN LIKE THIS
BACK AND FORTH.
&gt;&gt; SO I I WISH I WERE PART
OF THAT HAD BEEN PART OF THE
DISCUSSION OR SEE SO I COULD
HAVE MY HEAD MORE IN IT YOU
KNOW IN TERMS OF HOW YOU ALL
WERE TALKING ABOUT IT.
BUT I&apos;M CURIOUS WITH THIS
FOOTPRINT THING THAT WE&apos;VE BEEN
DISCUSSING AND WITH ESSENTIALLY
USING THE FACT THAT WE&apos;RE
INCENTIVIZING RESIDENTIAL TO
YOUR POINT, COMMISSIONER SAUVé
AS BASICALLY YOUR YOUR MAXIMUM
YOU KNOW I MEAN BECAUSE IT IS
SORT OF OUT OF WHACK, RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; THAT IT&apos;S GIVING THEM
FLEXIBILITY.
WHAT IS LIKE WHAT ARE WE GOING
TO GET HITWISE WITH THIS?
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS IF IF YOU ALL
KIND OF LOOKED AT THAT AT ALL
IN TERMS OF DOES THIS MEAN THAT
IT&apos;S SORT OF A THREE STORY
BUILDING SOMETHING IN THE
BOTTOM TO ABOVE?
CAN YOU DO A TEN STORY
BUILDING?
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW WHAT I&apos;M SAYING?
LIKE I JUST WONDER WHAT
EFFECTIVELY THIS ENDS UP
INCENTIVIZING IN TERMS
OF HEIGHT AND THEN WHAT WE&apos;RE
HOPING FOR IN TERMS OF HEIGHT
AND IN TERMS OF DENSITY WE&apos;RE
WE&apos;RE LIMITING IT RIGHT BY
HAVING THAT.
AND SO WHAT DOES THAT MEAN IN
TERMS OF WHAT WE MAY GET
?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T THINK WE DID
THAT SORT OF SCENARIO PLANNING
WITH IT AS YOU&apos;RE ASKING THE
QUESTION, I THINK I SUSPECT
THAT IF THERE IS AN UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE OF THIS, THERE&apos;S
GOING TO BE ONE OR TWO THINGS
THAT HAPPEN.
YOU&apos;LL GET TWO STOREY BUILDINGS
IN THE ONE CORRIDOR BECAUSE
THAT LIMITER IS PUTTING A
HARDER CAP ON HOW MUCH PARKING
YOU CAN PROVIDE.
&gt;&gt; SO JUST JUST THINK ABOUT
THAT REGULATION IF AS YOU ADD
STORIES YOU&apos;RE NOT ADDING
VEHICULAR USE AREA.
SO IF YOU ARE IF YOU&apos;VE GOT A
10000 SQUARE FOOT FOOTPRINT,
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE EITHER A
10000 SQUARE FOOT PARKING AREA
OR TWELVE FIFTY DEPENDING ON
YOUR LOT OF SIZE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I THINK THE MARKET IS
GOING YOU&apos;D PROBABLY CHALLENGE
BUILDING FOR STICK TO LEVELS
OVER A PODIUM BECAUSE OF THIS
TENSION AND SO I THINK THAT TO
KEEP TO KEEP THE MAXIMUM AND
THAT FOOTPRINT IS IS VERY MUCH
AND I THINK THAT WAS THE
INTENTION OF THIS IS CHANGE HOW
THESE CORRIDORS ARE USED.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I I THINK THAT I
THINK THE TENSIONS FOR THESE
REGULATIONS ARE THESE ARE THESE
ARE SAYING WE WANT A VERY HIGH
QUALITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
AND WE DON&apos;T
WANT OTHER TYPES
OF DEVELOPMENT.
AND SO I THINK THAT I THINK
THAT THE MOST LIKELY SCENARIO
IS PROBABLY THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE
SOME TIME WHERE WE GET
POTENTIALLY SLOWER DEVELOPMENT
WHILE THE MARKET IS SORTING OUT
THESE PARKING TO SQUARE FOOTAGE
OR WE&apos;RE PROBABLY GOING TO
START WITH TWO STOREY BUILDINGS
AS MY SPECULATION.
&gt;&gt; BUT AGAIN THAT&apos;S VALUABLE.
THESE ARE BIG PARKING AREAS
THAT WE CAN PUT TO BETTER
PRODUCTIVE AND OVER TIME I
THINK YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
INCREMENTAL OVER TIME THOSE
STORIES WILL START BEING MORE
THEY&apos;LL PROBABLY START
PENCILING OUT MORE BECAUSE
THEY&apos;RE PROBABLY NOT GOING TO
PENCIL OUT FOR THE FIRST ONE
BUT IT MIGHT PENCIL OUT FOR THE
SIXTH OR EIGHTH FLOOR SO THAT&apos;S
SORT OF MY TAKE AND I&apos;LL LEAVE
IT TO OTHER LRC MEMBERS OF FUGO
.
&gt;&gt; WE ALSO HAVE NO SET BACKS SO
IF YOU DO FIFTY FIFTY IT&apos;S ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT IMPERVIOUS JUST
TO BE THE BLEAKEST OF MOMENTS.
RIGHT LIKE I MEAN YOU HAVE
GREEN ROOFS, IMPERVIOUS
PAVEMENT.
YOU KNOW IF WE REALLY WANT TO
GO SUSTAINABLE BUT IF YOU THINK
OF FIFTY FIFTY TRADE IN ZERO
SET BACKS THAT REALLY IS KIND
OF WORST CASE SCENARIO.
SO I AM JUST KIND OF IF WE WANT
TO START SCENARIO PLANNING
THAT&apos;S WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE.
THE OTHER POTENTIAL INTERIM
OUTCOME THAT I THINK COULD
HAPPEN NOW IS THAT BY REDUCING
PARKING MINIMUMS AND AGAIN
STAFF CORRECT ME IF I&apos;M WRONG
CITYWIDE REDUCING PARKING
MINIMUMS IT MEANS THAT IF THERE
IS AN EXISTING PARKING LOT,
MAYBE NOT THE ONE THAT&apos;S BEING
REDEVELOPED BUT THAT IS UNDER
UTILIZED THERE IS NOTHING
STOPPING THERE.
THAT KIND OF PARKING SHARING
LIKE WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO SEE THOSE
AGREEMENTS AND THERE&apos;S NO
THERE&apos;S NO REVIEW OF THAT
ANYMORE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO MY HOPE IS THAT THE
EXCESSIVE OVERFLOW PARKING THAT
ALREADY EXISTS IN SOME OF THOSE
PLACES BY NOW NOT HOLDING THOSE
INDIVIDUAL BUILDINGS TO THOSE
MINIMUMS THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR
SOME OF THAT TRANSITION UNTIL
PEOPLE CAN FEEL COMFORTABLE.
YES, IT IS POSSIBLE TO LIVE IN
THIS CITY RIGHT ALONG THESE
TRANSIT CORRIDORS WITHOUT A CAR
UNTIL THE MARKET CATCHES UP
RIGHT UNTIL THINGS KIND
OF NORMALIZE.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S A
POSSIBILITY.
COMMISSIONER DISH, I WONDERED
IF YOU COULD JUST ROLL BACK TO
THE TWO STOREY BUILDINGS
SCENARIO.
I DON&apos;T THINK THIS WAS THE
INTENT RIGHT AT ALL ACTUALLY I
THINK THE ASPIRATION ON COUNCIL
AT LEAST IN SOME PEOPLE&apos;S MINDS
IS AND ACTUALLY MR MAUSHART
EARLIER IF THIS WERE ONE WE
WOULD GET MORE HYPE RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK THE IDEA WAS MORE
UNITS AND IF WE&apos;RE GETTING A
BUNCH OF TWO STOREY BUILDINGS,
PART OF WHICH HAS TO BE RETAIL
ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
YEAH, WE&apos;RE GETTING MORE THAN
NONE BUT WE&apos;RE NOT GETTING
SCALE THIS IS SUPPOSED TO GIVE
US HOUSING AT SCALE.
I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT I&apos;M A LITTLE
BIT WORRIED ABOUT THIS
FOOTPRINT PART WHICH I DON&apos;T
THINK I UNDERSTOOD UNTIL JUST
TONIGHT.
SO I&apos;M SORRY IF I WAS CONFUSED
PREVIOUSLY.
&gt;&gt; SOUNDS LIKE THERE SHOULD BE
MORE UN COMMISSIONER PROPOSED
BUSINESS UNLESS WE WANT TO TAKE
UP BECAUSE I DON&apos;T THINK THAT
WE WANT TO TAKE UP ONE PART
OF THIS OR MAYBE WE DO.
I GUESS I PUT THAT BACK TO BOTH
COMMISSIONER GIVE BRANDL AND
COMMISSIONER DISH ABOUT THAT
PARTICULAR ELEMENT WITHIN TICK
ONE ZONING I WOULD LIKE US TO
MOVE ON PARKING MINIMUMS WHICH
WE CAN DO.
I THINK WE HAVE AGREEMENT ABOUT
THAT AND THAT WON&apos;T THAT
DOESN&apos;T AFFECT ONE.
I THINK THIS MAXIMUM DISCUSSION
IS REALLY, REALLY COMPLICATED
AND IT REALLY DOES HAVE THE
POTENTIAL TO NOT FIT WITH WHAT
PEOPLE&apos;S THOUGHT WAS ABOUT.
I MEAN THE PEOPLE WHO HATE
DUQUAN SAY YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
BUILD A BUNCH OF SKYSCRAPERS
AND THE PEOPLE WHO LOVE T7 ARE
SAYING WE&apos;RE GOING TO BUILD AT
SCALE AND SCALE NOW UP IT&apos;S NOT
SUBDIVISIONS ANYMORE LIKE IT
WAS IN THE 60S.
SO I AM CONCERNED BUT I DON&apos;T
VIEW THIS AS PREVENTING US FROM
PASSING THE PARKING MINIMUM
PART AND SENDING THAT TO
COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU&apos;RE CONCERNED
CARPINTERIA RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; I AM CONCERNED THAT NOBODY
IS GOING TO BUILD A FIVE TO
EIGHT STOREY MULTIFAMILY UNIT
WITH I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MANY
PARKING SPACES YOU WOULD GET
OUT OF THE THE FOOTPRINT BUT IT
WILL BE YOU KNOW, POINT TWO PER
UNIT BUT POTENTIALLY I DON&apos;T
KNOW MY JUST SO YOU&apos;RE SHAKING
SO SOMEBODY IS BETTER AT MATH
DO IT BUT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE WAY
OFF.
&gt;&gt; BUT THE AMENDMENT ON THE
TABLE IS NOT THAT THE AMENDMENT
ON THE TABLE IS ABOUT LIKE HOW
MANY YOU COULD PUT IN THE
FOOTPRINT YOU CAN PROVIDE
ADJUSTING THE FOOTPRINT TO DO
MULTIPLE LEVELS IS COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS TO CHANGE THE
TCE ONE AMENDMENT NOT THE
PARKING STANDARDS AMENDMENT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT&apos;S WHAT WE NEED
CLARITY ON.
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT TWO
SEPARATE AMENDMENTS HERE
PARKING MAXIMUMS LIKE IF YOU
HAD ENOUGH SQUARE FOOTAGE TO DO
A PARKING UP TO THREE SPACES
PER THOUSAND WE COULD PROBABLY
GO FIVE SIX STORIES.
&gt;&gt; THE CONCERN IS YOU CAN&apos;T
ACTUALLY SPREAD OUT ALL THAT
PARKING FURTHER THAN YOUR
BUILDING FOOTPRINT.
SO THE THE PARKING FOOTPRINT IS
HIGHLY LIMITING MORE SO THAN
THE THREE PER THOUSAND.
BUT THE BUILDING THE PARKING
FOOTPRINT IS NOT PART OF THIS.
&gt;&gt; OH, I DIDN&apos;T REALIZE THAT
THE PARKING FOOTPRINT IS PART
OF THE T C ONE ORDINANCE THAT
WE ALREADY PASSED AND SO WE
NEED TO MAKE A COMMISSION
PROPOSAL BUSINESS TO REVISIT
THE TAXI ONE ORDINANCE TONIGHT
WE ARE JUST PASSING THREE
PARKING SPACES MAXIMUM AND THAT
WAS PART OF WHAT I WAS
SUGGESTING WAY BACK WHERE IT
DOESN&apos;T MAKE A DIFFERENCE RIGHT
THAT WE ALREADY REJECTED SO SO
LIKE I SAID YEAH, I THINK IT&apos;S
HELPFUL NOW TO SEE IT AND IN
FUTURE DISCUSSIONS MIGHT BE
HELPFUL NOW THAT WE&apos;RE ALL
TOGETHER TO SEE IT ON A CHART
SO THAT WE CAN SORT OF SEPARATE
THE TWO THINGS THAT WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT SO THAT WE ARE
NOT CONFLATING THEM.
&gt;&gt; NO, NO, NO.
I&apos;M NOT I&apos;M NOT SUGGESTING
THAT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M JUST SAYING THIS IS THE
PARKING MAXIMUMS IS SOMEWHAT
COMPLICATED IN SOME WAYS.
IN OTHER WAYS IT&apos;S VERY SIMPLE
AND STRAIGHTFORWARD ESPECIALLY
IN THE TAXI ONE BECAUSE OF THE
AREA WHICH COMMISSIONER
SURVEYORS POINTED OUT TO US.
&gt;&gt; SO I&apos;M GOOD NOW I THINK I
UNDERSTAND IT AND THE
AMENDMENTS AND I I SUPPORT WHAT
WE&apos;RE DOING TONIGHT AND THEN WE
CAN PICK UP THE OTHER PIECES
NEEDED TO GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER EVANS.
SO I THINK OBVIOUSLY WE NEED TO
PUT THE THE TAXI ONE OR THAT
PART OF THE TAXI ONE ORDINANCE
AND THE AGENDA TO TALK ABOUT IN
THE MEANTIME I I WOULD I WOULD
BE IN FAVOR OF PASSING WHAT&apos;S
BEFORE US THIS EVENING WITH THE
TAXI ONE MAXIMUM IN IT AND I
JUST WANTED TO GO ON THE RECORD
TO SAY THAT I WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN REDUCING THAT
MAXIMUM IN THE FUTURE IF
FURTHER STUDY WARRANTED.
AND I THINK I JUST WANTED TO
MAYBE LIKE UNDERSCORE WHAT
COMMISSIONER SURVEY WAS SAYING
ABOUT ACKNOWLEDGING THE KIND
OF DEVELOPMENT THAT THAT WILL
MAKE THAT THAT WILL MAKE TAXI
ONE UNFRIENDLY TO CERTAIN KINDS
OF DEVELOPMENT BUT THAT THAT IS
I THINK OUR INTENTION AS
OPPOSED TO AN UNFORTUNATE
BYPRODUCT THERE ARE CERTAIN
KINDS OF DEVELOPMENT THAT
SHOULD NOT BE APPROPRIATE AND
INCENTIVIZED IN D.C. ONE AND I
THINK A SINGLE STORY FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT RESTAURANT
WOULD BE ONE OF THOSE USES.
I THINK WE WANT DENSER USE THAT
WE WANT RESIDENTIAL.
SO I WOULD BE IN FAVOR
OF VOTING ON WHAT&apos;S IN FRONT
OF US WITHOUT ANY MOTION TO
AMEND THIS AMENDMENT AND THEN
REVISITING THE TAXI ONE PARKING
IN A MORE HOLISTIC WAY AND
THINKING ABOUT MAXIMUMS AND
MINIMUM CITYWIDE ALSO IN A MORE
HOLISTIC WAY.
AND I PERSONALLY WOULD BE
INTERESTED IN EXPLORING WHAT IT
WOULD MEAN TO REDUCE THE
MAXIMUM IN THE FUTURE AND JUST
MAYBE TO REMIND EVERYBODY I
THINK THE EXISTING MAXIMUMS FOR
RETAIL AND OFFICE RANGE FROM
THIRTY THREE POINT THREE AND A
HALF OR THREE POINT SEVEN TO
FOUR.
&gt;&gt; SO THREE IS A REDUCTION
OF THE EXISTING MAXIMUM.
BUT IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT IT&apos;S NOT
WELL I DON&apos;T KNOW ACTUALLY I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT&apos;S RADICAL OR
REVOLUTIONARY IN THE AND THE
SCALE OF COMMERCIALS I WON&apos;T
SAY BUT IT IS A IT IS A
REDUCTION THAT&apos;S ALL THANKS MR
LEINERT.
&gt;&gt; JUST TO THAT LAST POINT
ROUGHLY THOSE THAT HAVE
MAXIMUMS THE NONRESIDENTIAL
USES ARE IN THE RANGE OF FOUR
SPACES PER THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
.
YEP FOUR FOR RETAIL THE MAXIMUM
IS THREE POINT SEVENTY FIVE
FOUR AND FOUR POINT TWENTY FIVE
DEPENDING ON THE SIZE OF THE
CENTER ALL CONTINUE TO BE
CONFUSED AND THAT MAY BE
BECAUSE LAST NIGHT WAS LATE
LATE.
BUT WHEN WE STARTED OUT WITH
THIS INTERESTING IDEA THAT
THIRTY ONE USES IN
ONE
CURRENTLY DON&apos;T HAVE MAXIS SO
THESE WOULD BE NEWLY IMPOSED
AND IN EIGHT USERS THAT HAVE
PARKING BOXES THESE WILL BE
REDUCED.
THOSE ARE INTERESTING EXCEPT
THAT IT SEEMS LIKE WHAT&apos;S
REALLY CONSTRAINING THE PARKING
IN THE TAXI ONE DISTRICT IS THE
FOOTPRINT THING AND SO THESE
BOXES ARE KIND OF MOOT FOR THIS
ONE BECAUSE YOU PROBABLY AREN&apos;T
GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET TO THEM
IN THE FIRST PLACE MOSTLY
DEPENDING.
YEAH, OK.
CONFESSIONALLY.
&gt;&gt; OH I JUST WANTED TO SAY THAT
I DO THINK THE ELIMINATION
OF MINIMUM&apos;S IS SUCH A CRITICAL
OBJECTIVE FOR US TO CHASE THAT
AND THEN REALLY MY COMMENTS
WERE TRYING TO ILLUSTRATE THE
CHALLENGES OF RETAILERS AND HOW
THEY THINK ABOUT COMMERCIAL
LEASES.
SAME THING WITH OFFICE FOLKS.
BUT I IN THIS PARTICULAR
INSTANCE I BELIEVE THAT THE ALL
OF THE PROGRESS THAT WE MAKE IN
THIS PARTICULAR AMENDMENT
OUTWEIGHS ANY KIND
OF CONSIDERATIONS THAT YOU
KNOW, WE COULD ALWAYS COME BACK
AND SAY THIS IS WHY THIS WASN&apos;T
WORKING.
SO YOU KNOW, I I HAVE CERTAIN
LEVELS OF CONCERN JUST LOOKING
AT IT FROM A PURE, YOU KNOW,
RESTAURANT OR SOLANAS
HAIRSTYLE, YOU KNOW, KIND
OF PERSPECTIVE.
BUT BUT AGAIN, I GUESS TO THE
POINT I&apos;M TRYING TO MAKE IS I
WOULD BE I WOULD BE VOTING IN
FAVOR OF THIS IF IT WENT TO A
VOTE RIGHT NOW SIMPLY BECAUSE I
THINK THE AMOUNT OF GOOD THAT
COMES FROM THIS OUTWEIGHS
CERTAINLY SOME OF THE CONCERNS
AND MISGIVINGS I MAY HAVE.
&gt;&gt; SO THANKS.
&gt;&gt; THE ONLY ADDITIONAL NOTE
THAT I HAD IS THAT I APPRECIATE
THE STAFF REPORT.
MR KHAN, THIS IS GREAT TALKING
ABOUT HOW ALL OF THIS ALIGNS
WITH OUR EXISTING PLANS AND
THERE&apos;S ONE ADDITIONAL ONE
WHICH IS THE MOVING TOGETHER
TOWARDS VISION ZERO THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THIS IS
ELIMINATING PARKING MINIMUMS
WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
SPECIFICALLY CALLED OUT ON THAT
THAT WE WERE SUPPOSED TO
ACCOMPLISH THIS YEAR.
&gt;&gt; WE DID IT.
YEAH.
BUT IT ALSO LISTS THAT WE ALSO
NEED TO LOOK AT WE NEED TO
CONSIDER PARKING MAXIMUM
CITYWIDE SO I WOULD FURTHER SAY
LOOK, WE KNOW THAT&apos;S ON OUR
WORK PLAN BUT JUST TO CHECK
THAT OFF IN BECAUSE THAT IS
WHILE THE THAT IS ONE OF THE
DOCUMENTS THAT IS PART OF OUR
COMP LEYSHON OF COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN DOCUMENTS.
&gt;&gt; SO I ALSO HAVE ON MY LISTS
LIKE WE JOIN COURSE IN
ELIMINATING PARKING MINIMUMS
AMAZING PULLING UP WHAT THEY
HAVE ON THEIR PARKING MAXIMUMS
TABLE LIKE THERE&apos;S LOTS
OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU WERE ABLE
TO TALK TO HER BUT THERE&apos;S LOTS
OF THEY DON&apos;T HAVE ONE SINGLE
STANDARD.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK WE KNOW THAT THAT
ONE MAY BE THE ONE THAT TAKES A
LITTLE BIT MORE TIME AND
UNDERSTANDING THAT FROM THEIR
PERSPECTIVE I THINK WOULD
ACTUALLY BE REALLY HELPFUL.
&gt;&gt; ANY OTHER THINGS BEFORE WE
VOTE?
I I AM EFFECTIVELY HEARING
MOVING FORWARD AS IS WITH THE
THE FULL SET OF CHANGES
INCLUDING THE ONE THREE PER
1000 MULTIPLIER ERM X YES
COMMISSIONER SAUVé THIS IS
REALLY FOR YOU MR KHAN AND IF
YOU LEAVE BEFORE COMMISSION
PROPOSE BUSINESS THE THING THAT
WOULD HELP IN ALL OF THESE
METRICS THAT YOU DID PROVIDE IS
IF YOU COULD DO AN AERIAL VIEW
FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS AND TELL US
OF THESE PROJECTS THAT YOU&apos;VE
DONE THE CALCULATIONS FOR.
WHAT WOULD BE ALLOWED VERSUS
WHAT THERE IS WHAT IS THE
BUILDING FOOTPRINT AND WHAT IS
THE PARKING FOOTPRINT?
YOU KNOW, I JUST LIKE I&apos;LL JUST
SAY I HAVE TO DISTRACT ANY MORE
FROM THIS FOOTPRINT THING BUT
THE WHOLE FOODS IF WE GAVE A
METRIC OF TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
SQUARE FEET PER PARKING SPOT
IT&apos;S ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET FOR THE PARKING
AREA.
THE BUILDING IS ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY SEVEN THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET OF RETAIL SPACE BUT THAT&apos;S
A SHOPPING CENTER AND I BELIEVE
THERE&apos;S YOU STORIES ON ONE
OF THOSE BUILDINGS SORT
OF THING.
SO THOSE ARE THOSE ARE REALLY
HELPFUL THINGS THAT INSTEAD ARE
DOING QUICK MATH IF WE GET TO
THIS BIG COMPANY BEFORE FROM
COMMISSIONER PROPOSED BUSINESS
THAT WOULD BE THE NEXT METRIC.
SO WE DON&apos;T SEE IT AGAIN DECIDE
ABOUT THE WORK TO DO IS GOING
TO MAKE THAT NOTE RIGHT NOW.
THANK YOU AND AND YES,
COMMISSIONER, GIVE BRANDL BACK
IN CASE YOU DO RUN AWAY.
MR KHAN, I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO
CONSIDER I&apos;M NOT LETTING HIM GO
ANYWHERE.
OK, WELL LIKE HE&apos;S DONE WITH
THE SECTION HE WANTS TO GO
HOME.
&gt;&gt; I UNDERSTAND THAT THAT I
WOULD REALLY LIKE TO NOT TO
INCENTIVIZE HAVING ROBUST
PARKING LOT ISLANDS AND ISLES
BETWEEN THINGS THAT HAVE GREEN
SO THAT WE CAN SHADE OUR
PARKING LOTS AND TRY TO REDUCE
URBAN HEAT ISLAND EFFECT AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO AS PART
OF THAT DISCUSSION OR PART
OF THE RESEARCH OR HOWEVER THAT
WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE TO TAKE
THOSE ISLANDS OUT OF IT SO THAT
WE&apos;RE NOT INCENTIVIZING THAT SO
GREAT ANYTHING ELSE BEFORE WE
VOTE ON THE MANY EXCITING
AMENDMENTS TO UDC PARKING
STANDARDS?
MR LEONARD?
I THINK WE ARE READY
COMMISSIONER GET BRANDL YES
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HECK YES
COMMISSIONER APRON&apos;S YES SAID A
HECK YES OR JUST A YES.
I SAY YEAH.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT I
NOTHING GUYS.
YES TWO THUMBS UP COMMISSIONER
JOSH YES COMMISSIONER OLLI YES
COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES
COMMISSIONER YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
&gt;&gt; PASSES ON TO CITY COUNCIL
VERY GOOD.
BEFORE WE MOVE ON TO OTHER
BUSINESS CAN WE TAKE A BREAK?
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL COME BACK SEVEN
MINUTES AT ROUGHLY EIGHT FIFTY
EIGHT FORTY NINE DEPENDING ON
YOUR WATCH
I WILL CALL BACK TO
ORDER TO TALK ABOUT NINE A.
WHICH IS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION REVIEW OF THE CITY
COUNCIL POLICY AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; YES, AS A REMINDER THE CITY
COUNCIL ADOPTS A POLICY AGENDA
.
IT USES THIS TO INSTRUCT STAFF
REPRESENTATIVES LIKE LOBBYISTS
TO ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF THE
THINGS THAT MATTER TO THE CITY
.
THE CITY COUNCIL DISTRIBUTES
THIS TO ITS BOARDS AND ADVISORY
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
WE HAD A NATIONAL CONVERSATION
ABOUT THIS.
I THINK THAT THERE WAS A LOT
OF AGREEMENT AND SOME THERE WAS
SOME SLIGHT MODIFICATION.
I THINK COMMISSIONER MAY
PROVIDE SOME CLARIFICATION ON
GENDER NEUTRAL RESTROOMS,
BUILDING CODE ADVOCACY AND I
THINK THE THE SORT OF LATE IN
THE MEETING WE GOT A BIT STUCK
ON INCLUSIONARY ZONING.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE HAD
PROVIDED SOME RESOURCES AS SHE
HAD REFERENCED IN THE MEETING
AND I SHARED THOSE IN IN A MEMO
WITH MY KNOWLEDGE HOPEFULLY
SOMEWHAT ACCURATE HIGH LEVEL
SUMMARIES OF WHAT THOSE
RESOURCES WERE AND WOULD PLAY A
QUESTION AS TO OPTIONS.
YOU DON&apos;T HAVE TO PROVIDE ANY
COMMENTS TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
YOU COULD ADOPT THE COMMENTS AS
PRESENTED OR YOU COULD MAKE ANY
MODIFICATIONS AND ADOPT
PROPOSED COMMENTS FROM A STAFF
PERSPECTIVE I I SEE BOTH SIDES.
I THINK GENERALLY I WILL SAY
THAT THE MORE STATE LEGISLATIVE
TOOLS WE HAVE THE BETTER.
SO MY INCLINATION WOULD BE TO
LEAVE THAT IN THERE.
BUT I CAN ALSO SEE THE ARGUMENT
IN THE CONTEXT OF LIMITED
RESOURCES.
MAYBE THIS IS NOT SOMETHING
WORTHWHILE THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL SETS IS A PRIORITY.
&gt;&gt; SO WITH THAT JUST ANY
COMMUNICATION THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION CHOOSES IF DESIRED
TO SHARE WITH THE COUNCIL.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING
FOR THIS.
IS THERE EVEN A MOTION AND
OF AND OF THE MEMO I THINK
THERE&apos;S TWO OPTIONS.
&gt;&gt; OK, SO WE KIND OF HAVE TO
CHOOSE ONE OF THOSE OPTIONS
BEFORE WE MOVE FORWARD
.
&gt;&gt; SO WHY DON&apos;T I WHY DON&apos;T I
READ THE FIRST ONE AND WE CAN
LIKE NORMAL IF WE DON&apos;T LIKE IT
THEN WE CAN CHOOSE TO VOTE IT
DOWN SO THAT WE CAN START A
DISCUSSION TO MOVE IT AND HAVE
IT SECONDED AND THEN WE HAVE A
DISCUSSION THERE THEN THEN WE
VOTE ON THE MOTION TO DISCUSS.
LET ME JUST READ IT AND THEN WE
CAN DECIDE I&apos;M GOING TO READ
THE FIRST ONE THE PLANNING.
THIS IS A MOTION TO RECOMMEND
AMENDMENTS TO THE DRAFT POLICY
AGENDA AS PRESENTED AND FORWARD
TO THE MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL.
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO
THAT&apos;S WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
DISCUSSING AND VOTING UPON.
AND THEN IF PEOPLE WANT TO MAKE
AMENDMENTS TO IT, THEN THAT&apos;S
WHAT WE CAN DO IN THE PROCESS.
&gt;&gt; DOES ANYBODY WANT TO MOVE
THAT MOTION THIS MAKES GO
AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ABRAN SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER BRANDELL.
LET&apos;S OPEN DISCUSSION COMMENTS
.
GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
THOSE ARE TWO WELL, I DON&apos;T
KNOW THAT I LIKE EITHER OF SO I
THINK THE TEXT LINE CHANGES
LIKE THE EDITS THAT YOU DID ARE
ARE GOOD AND I THINK THE GENDER
NEUTRAL BATHROOMS AND I THINK
THOSE ARE GOOD.
SO THEN I MEAN TO ME IT&apos;S THE
WHOLE LIKE ARE WE INCLUDING THE
INCLUSIONARY ZONING COMPONENT
OF IT THAT&apos;S REALLY THE MEAT
OF THIS DISCUSSION.
SO LIKE I I DON&apos;T LIKE EITHER
OF THESE ACTIONS BECAUSE I
THINK WE NEED TO TALK ABOUT
MAYBE THAT COMPONENT OF IT.
I DON&apos;T KNOW.
I&apos;M ERRING ON THE SIDE OF JUST
LIKE EITHER SENDING THESE TEXT
LIKE LINE EDITS AND ALSO I
THINK LAST TIME WE TALKED ABOUT
MAYBE JUST COMING UP WITH SOME
SORT OF LIKE LANGUAGE ABOUT WE
DON&apos;T REALLY LIKE WE DON&apos;T
NECESSARILY SUPPORT LOBBYING TO
HAVE INCLUSIONARY ZONING AND
LIKE HEAR SOME OF THE REASONS
WHY.
BUT WE&apos;RE YOU KNOW, WE
DEFINITELY THINK LIKE WE NEED
MORE HOUSING.
I FORGET AND WE DISCUSSED THIS
LAST TIME I YOU SO MY
RECOLLECTION IS YOU MIGHT BE
CONFLATING WE HAD A
CONVERSATION ABOUT A PROPOSED
RESOLUTION FOR UM WORKFORCE
HOUSING AND SORT OF DISCUSSING
JUST SOME SORT OF HIGHER LEVEL
COMMENTS ABOUT SOME OF THE
CITY&apos;S PLANNING POLICIES.
I THINK YOU&apos;RE RIGHT THE THE
THE THE SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSION
I THINK WAS WHETHER OR NOT TO
INCLUDE THE INCLUSIONARY ZONING
REQUIREMENT AND SO MAYBE JUST
TO KEEP IT SIMPLE AS IF IF THE
COMMISSION IS OF A MIND THAT
THAT IS NOT A GOOD TOOL THAT
SHOULD BE AVAILABLE TO
COMMUNITIES AND NOT SOMETHING
THAT THE CITY SHOULD SPEND ANY
RESOURCES OR ADVOCACY ON.
WE JUST REMOVE THAT AND THEN WE
COULD SEND THE RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR THOSE CHANGES WITH WITH
THAT REFLECTION WOULD WE I MEAN
I WOULD BE IN FAVOR OF THAT AND
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF WE
WOULD NEED
TO BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT JUST SORT
OF LIKE A LANGUAGE EDIT I DON&apos;T
KNOW IF THERE NEEDS TO BE SOME
SORT OF LIKE PARAGRAPH
EXPLANATION OF WHY WE&apos;RE JUST
DELETING THAT.
&gt;&gt; ARE WE JUST I WOULD KIND
OF LIKE WHAT YOU JUST SAID.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I&apos;D BE HAPPY TO JUST I
THINK THE MY TAKEAWAY WAS THAT
INCLUDES ARIZONA ZONING
RESEARCHES HAS SHOWN DOESN&apos;T
OFTEN DOESN&apos;T RESULT IN THE
OUTCOMES AS DESIRED.
THEREFORE THIS PLANNING
COMMISSION DOESN&apos;T ADVISE CITY
RESOURCES GOING TOWARDS
ADVOCATING FOR OH I&apos;M
REMEMBERING ANOTHER THING THAT
I WAS TALKING ABOUT THAT I WAS
YES.
&gt;&gt; SORRY BUT YEAH I THINK SOME
SORT OF STATEMENT ABOUT WHY WE
WOULD BE IF WE AGREE THAT WE
SHOULD JUST SORT OF RECOMMEND
THAT THEY TAKE THIS OUT SOME
SORT OF STATEMENT AS TO WHY I
THINK WOULD BE HELPFUL.
ARE YOU MOVING TO STRIKE THAT
STATEMENT?
&gt;&gt; I THINK SO I I WOULD YES.
SO A STRIKING NUMBER TWO.
WELL THE FIRST NUMBER ON PAGE
THREE THE NUMBERING OF THIS IS
NOT IDEAL.
&gt;&gt; CAN NOT STRIKE THE WHOLE
LINE BUT JUST THE PHRASE
REZONING PRACTICES KEEP
AFFORDABILITY INCENTIVES.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD JUST LIKE THE WHOLE
THING BUT WE DON&apos;T WANT TO KEEP
ADVOCACY FOR AFFORDABILITY
INCENTIVES THAT ALREADY EXIST
IN STATE LEGISLATION FOR
MYLAN&apos;S OK DONE.
DID WE SHARE THIS WITH THERESA
GILARDI?
&gt;&gt; YES.
I ASKED IF SHE HAD ANY
FEEDBACK.
&gt;&gt; SHE DID NOT HAVE ANY
SPECIFIC FEEDBACK ON
INCLUSIONARY ZONING.
HMM.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
BROUGHT IT UP.
&gt;&gt; MY RECOLLECTION IS
HISTORICALLY THEY THE THAT
BOARD HAS BEEN AN ADVOCATE
OF KEEPING INCLUSIONARY ZONING
AS A WAY TO REALIZE UNITS BUT I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THEY&apos;VE LOOKED AT
AT THIS TIME.
HM.
SO ACTUALLY LET ME GO BACK
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
MOVED THAT AMENDMENT AMENDING
THE THE EFFECT OF ADOPTING AND
PASSING THIS ON AS DRAFTED.
ANYONE WANT THE AMENDMENT TO
STRIKE THAT ENTIRE LINE ABOUT
INCLUSIONARY ZONING SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER LEIGH?
&gt;&gt; NOW WE CAN DISCUSS IT.
WE SHOULD DISCUSS AND HONESTLY
THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;VE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS LIKE OK, YEAH, GO
AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; I SHOULD VOTE FOR THIS.
I WOULD HAVE TO READ THAT
RESEARCH MYSELF AND I HAVE NOT
HAD TIME TO DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; UM, SO JUST ON THE NOT
BECAUSE I DOUBT IT BUT I WOULD
REALLY NEED TO READ IT FIRST
AND UNDERSTAND WHAT IT&apos;S SAYING
.
SO UM BUT THAT DOESN&apos;T MATTER
OTHER OUR DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO STRIKE
THE ADVOCACY FOR AN ABILITY TO
INCORPORATE INCLUSIONARY ZONING
AND IN ADDITION TO THAT WITH A
MEMO WITH A SHORT STATEMENT
ABOUT WHY AND I&apos;M JUST TRYING
TO REMEMBER THE DISCUSSION
ABOUT IT IN TERMS OF WHAT WAS
THAT COMMISSIONER PARK THAT WAS
EXPLAINING TO US BEFORE COULD
YOU I REMEMBER.
YEAH, I KNOW, RIGHT, SO MAYBE
THAT&apos;S UNREALISTIC.
LONG STORY SHORT AS IT&apos;S
COMPLICATED AND THERE WAS JUST
DONE YOUR ARTICLE WITH NEW
RESEARCH THAT CAME OUT A COUPLE
OF MONTHS AGO IN GOVERNING
MAGAZINE EXACTLY LIKE THRILLING
BUT IT&apos;S ACTUALLY REALLY
INTERESTING.
SO YEAH, THERE&apos;S JUST BASICALLY
LIKE CAN CREATE IF THERE&apos;S NOT
CAREFULLY CONSIDER UPDATED
PARAMETERS ON IT, YOU RISK
CREATING KIND OF DEPENDING ON
THE STRENGTH OF THE HOUSING
MARKET AS WELL.
YOU KIND OF RISK CREATING A
FLAW THAT PREVENTS A LOT
OF PEOPLE YOU CREATE NEW
MARKETS, A REALLY EXPENSIVE
MARKET AND THEN A SUBSIDIZED
MARKET AND IT&apos;S KIND OF LIKE
PICKING WINNERS.
IT CAN KIND OF THROW OFF THE
HOUSING MARKET FURTHER CAN ALSO
RAISE THE LEVEL.
SO IT&apos;S LIKE I GUESS THE POLICY
ITSELF THE REASON I&apos;M NOT
SPOKEN UP EARLIER I THINK
THERE&apos;S ALSO A POINT TO LIKE
WHAT&apos;S FEASIBLE AT THE STATE
LEVEL RIGHT NOW GIVEN THE
CURRENT LEGISLATOR AND IF IT&apos;S
WORTH SPENDING A LOT OF TIME
DEBATING THE MERITS OF THE
POLICY THAT CAN BE CRAFTED IN A
CERTAIN WAY AND I GUESS MY ONLY
CONCERN WOULD BE LIKE THE
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE OF IF IT
WERE PASSED AT THE STATE LEVEL
AND ALLOWED AND THEN IF WHAT
THAT MIGHT IMPACT ON OUR
ABILITY TO PROVIDE HOUSING
COMPARED TO NEIGHBORING AREAS
IF WE WERE TO ENACT SUCH
LEGISLATION AND LET&apos;S SAY
PITTSVILLE DOESN&apos;T IT THAT
MIGHT HAVE A RESULT WHERE THE
DEVELOPMENT GOES.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THERE&apos;S JUST A LOT TO
CONSIDER THERE.
I&apos;M A BIT TIRED.
IT&apos;S BEEN A LONG MEETING SO I&apos;M
PROBABLY NOT BEING SUPER WELL
SPOKEN.
BUT I GUESS THE BOTTOM LINE
BEING AT THE STATE LEGISLATURE
BEING IN THE CURRENT STATE IS
PROBABLY DOESN&apos;T MAKE IT SUCH A
THING WORTH SPENDING TIME
LOBBYING AT A LOCAL LEVEL
.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD, COMMISSIONER EVANS
I FEEL LIKE BECAUSE THERE IS
.
DEFINITELY I DON&apos;T LIKE EVEN IF
I FEEL LIKE BECAUSE THERE IS
IT&apos;S NOT CONSENSUS ONE HUNDRED
DEFINITELY I DON&apos;T LIKE EVEN IF
PERCENT IN THE AFFORDABLE
IT&apos;S NOT CONSENSUS ONE HUNDRED
HOUSING COMMUNITY ABOUT WHETHER
PERCENT IN THE AFFORDABLE
IT&apos;S GOOD PRACTICE.
HOUSING COMMUNITY ABOUT WHETHER
THERE CERTAINLY IS ENOUGH
IT&apos;S GOOD PRACTICE.
RESEARCH SHOWING THAT WE NEED
THERE CERTAINLY IS ENOUGH
TO THINK MORE CAREFULLY ABOUT
RESEARCH SHOWING THAT WE NEED
IT AS A PRACTICE.
TO THINK MORE CAREFULLY ABOUT
I&apos;M COMFORTABLE I WOULD SUPPORT
IT AS A PRACTICE.
STRIKING IT FROM THIS SO THAT
I&apos;M COMFORTABLE I WOULD SUPPORT
WE AREN&apos;T PROACTIVELY AFFIRMING
STRIKING IT FROM THIS SO THAT
SUPPORT FOR SOMETHING THAT
WE AREN&apos;T PROACTIVELY AFFIRMING
WE&apos;RE WORRIED ISN&apos;T EFFECTIVE.
SUPPORT FOR SOMETHING THAT
IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT IT CAN&apos;T
WE&apos;RE WORRIED ISN&apos;T EFFECTIVE.
HAPPEN.
IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT IT CAN&apos;T
WE&apos;RE NOT FORBIDDING IT.
HAPPEN.
WE&apos;RE JUST REMOVING VOCAL
WE&apos;RE NOT FORBIDDING IT.
SUPPORT FOR IT AND THEREFORE I
WE&apos;RE JUST REMOVING VOCAL
WOULD BE IN FAVOR OF STRIKING
SUPPORT FOR IT AND THEREFORE I
IT.
WOULD BE IN FAVOR OF STRIKING
OTHER THOUGHTS
.
ALL RIGHT.
LET&apos;S VOTE ON THE AMENDMENT
THEN.
SURE.
AND AGAIN, THE AMENDMENT WOULD
STRIKE THE LANGUAGE
COMMISSIONER GOOD BRENDEL.
YES, COMMISSIONER SAUVé.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH KNOW
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER WHICH YES.
MR MILLS.
&gt;&gt; YES.
MOTION CARRIES ALL RIGHTS ANY
OTHER CHANGES THAT WE WOULD
SUGGEST ON THE OTHERWISE
DRAFTED MARKED UP RED MARKUP
AGENDA
POLICY AGENDA NOT OUR
ACTUAL AGENDA.
OK THEN I THINK WE CAN VOTE ON
THIS TO MR LENNART COMMISSIONER
BRUNO YES COMMISSIONER YES.
COMMISSIONER EVANS YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT YES
COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; YES COMMISSIONER OLLI YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE YES
COMMISSIONER WHICH YES.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER MILLS YES.
THE MOTION CARRIES MOVING ON TO
ITEM NINE B THIS IS THE
CALENDAR YEAR TWENTY TWENTY TWO
PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
SCHEDULE FOR TURNING IT OVER.
&gt;&gt; I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT
NEXT WEEK&apos;S WORKING SESSION
WILL STILL BE REMOTE IF THAT
NOTICE HASN&apos;T GONE OUT.
I GOT A CALENDAR INVITE THAT
SAID MEETING PLACE HAD CHANGED
BUT NO, WE WILL STILL CONTINUE
TO BE ONLY ON ZOOM AND SO YOU
CAN EXPECT TO HAVE ZOOME
INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; DO WE KNOW IF THAT IS
CHANGING NOW?
IT WILL BE REMOTE UNTIL WE HEAR
OTHERWISE OR OTHERWISE THE
WORKING SESSIONS WILL CONTINUE
TO BE AND OR C WILL CONTINUE TO
BE REMOTE UNTIL WE OTHERWISE
OK.
&gt;&gt; ANYTHING ELSE TO NOTE IN THE
MEETING SCHEDULE?
NO MY APOLOGIES.
I THINK YOU GOT A GENERAL EMAIL
FROM MIKAEL FROM OUR OFFICE WE
KEEP MESSING UP YOUR FIRST MAY
MEETING FOR A BUNCH OF HOLIDAYS
AND WE&apos;RE TRYING TO FIX IT
AGAIN.
SO THE PRIMARY CHANGE IS THAT
IT WAS RATHER THAN BEING
SCHEDULED MAY 3RD IT WILL BE
MAY 4TH WHICH IS WEDNESDAY
BECAUSE THERE IS VOTING ON MAY
3RD.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S A CHANGE MR AND THE
FISCAL YEAR ADDING ON THE REST
AND ADDING THE REST.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY WE HAVE TO VOTE THIS UP AS
ARE ANY IS ANYBODY NOTICING ANY
OTHER CONFLICTS WHILE WE ARE
QUICKLY LOOKING AT THIS, IT
LOOKS LIKE I WILL KNOW WHILE
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT THIS ONE
OF THE THINGS IN THE PAST AS WE
HAVE SET THE MEETING CALENDAR
ON A FISCAL YEAR WHICH ONLY
MATTERS TO BUREAUCRATS SO PART
OF THIS IS I AM HOPING TO
TRANSITION THAT WELL WE&apos;LL BE
SETTING OUR SCHEDULE ON
CALENDAR YEAR LIKE MOST OF THE
REST OF THE WORLD AND FOR THE
SECOND HALF OF THE NEXT OR THE
FIRST HALF OF THE NEXT FISCAL
YEAR THAT&apos;S HIGHLIGHTED IN
YELLOW
.
&gt;&gt; THAT FIRST MEETING IS LIKE
ON A WEDNESDAY, NOT A TUESDAY
THE ENTIRE TIME AND YOU&apos;RE
ASKING WHY THAT IS?
&gt;&gt; NO, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JULY SIX.
IT&apos;S THE LITTLE ONE NEXT TO IT
JULY AUGUST, SEPTEMBER,
OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER ALL
WEDNESDAY MEETINGS.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAM&apos;S CAN I JUST
REQUEST THAT SOMEBODY SEND US
THE CALENDAR INVITES AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE SO THAT THEY SHOW UP
IN MY SUMMER CALENDAR AND THANK
YOU
.
&gt;&gt; I WAS GOING TO SAY FOURTH
OF JULY.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT AUGUST IS
ELECTION PRIMARY.
THANK YOU.
LABOR DAY.
YEAH.
AND THEN ANOTHER ELECTION
NOVEMBER 1ST
UNLESS YOU ALL
WANT TO GET RID OF DEMOCRACY.
NO
.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
BUT ANY OTHER DISCUSSION THIS
LOOKS RIGHT THOUGH.
GOOD LUCK.
DON&apos;T PLAN ON WEDNESDAY THINGS
LIKE YES WE WILL GET
APPOINTMENTS.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU ALL AND CAN WE
JUST DO A VOICE VOTE ALL IN
FAVOR OF THIS CALENDAR PLEASE
RAISE A HAND OR SAY I MOVE IN
SECOND THAT YES NO SHOOT OK SO
SO REMOVED COMMISSIONER SAUVé
SECONDED AND THEN WE ALL VOTED
YES THANK YOU.
I DID NOT HEAR THAT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT LET&apos;S SEE.
NEXT UP IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS THE FINAL OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE
THAT IS ON THEIR MINDS TONIGHT
.
IF YOU ARE JOINING US, GO AHEAD
AND USE THE RAISED HAND BUTTON
.
YOU CAN CALL IN AT EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN HOUR MEETING ID IS
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIXTY SIX
THIRTY FOUR TWELVE TWENTY SIX.
ONCE YOU JOIN THE MEETING YOU
CAN PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR
PHONE TO DIGITALLY RAISE YOUR
HAND PLEASE MUTE ANY TELEVISION
OR BACKGROUND SOUND SO THAT WE
CAN HEAR YOU CLEARLY.
WOULD YOU LIKE TO PROVIDE
PUBLIC COMMENT WATERMILLS SINCE
YOU INVITED PEOPLE TO SPEAK ON
ANY ISSUE THAT IS ON THEIR
MINDS?
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A BIG GENERAL BUT SO
THEY CAN GO AGAIN.
TWO MAJOR REASONS I SEE WHY WE
AS A SOCIETY HAVE COMPLETELY
FAILED TO ADDRESS THE CLIMATE
CRISIS IS THAT WE DON&apos;T TAKE
THE SOCIAL COST OF CARBON INTO
CONSIDERATION IN OUR DECISIONS
AND THAT COST ENDS UP BEING
PAID USUALLY BY THOSE LEAST
ABLE LEAST ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE PROBLEM TO BEGIN WITH,
ESPECIALLY THOSE IN WHAT WE
CALL THE THIRD WORLD AND AND
POOR PEOPLE AND MINORITY
COMMUNITIES IN THIS COUNTRY.
&gt;&gt; THE SECOND MAJOR REASON I
THINK WE FAILED IS THAT NO ONE
KNOWS A RELATIVE IMPACT OF THE
DIFFERENT THINGS WE DO IN TERMS
OF EMISSIONS AND THIS IS WHAT I
TRIED TO DO IN SOME OF MY
LETTERS TO YOU AND SOME OF MY
COMMENTS IS TO QUANTIFY A BIT
WHAT THE CONSEQUENCES ARE.
FOR EXAMPLE, CO TWO, THEY&apos;RE
GOING WITH GAS.
I THINK IT&apos;S VERY FAIR TO
ASSUME AT THIS POINT YOU KNOW,
I CALCULATE NINE HUNDRED AND
TEN METRIC CO2 EQUIVALENT
EMISSIONS A YEAR IF YOU INCLUDE
UPSTREAM METHANE EMISSIONS FROM
THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO I GUESS WHAT I&apos;M GETTING
TO IS IS COMMISSIONER WYTCHES
VERY SENSIBLE IDEA PRETTY
OF OSFI PROVIDING ROUTINELY A
REPORT TO YOU AND MAYBE EVEN
EARLIER IN THE PROCESS TO START
PUTTING SOME OF THESE NUMBERS
TOGETHER THAT WE CAN REQUIRE
ANYTHING ALONG THESE LINES BUT
JUST FOR THE DEVELOPERS CAN BE
CAN SEE THEM AND THEY MAY NOT
CARE AND I THINK THE ONE
TONIGHT CERTAINLY WOULDN&apos;T.
BUT MANY OF THEM WILL AND THEY
JUST DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE
CONSEQUENCES ARE OF WHAT
THEY&apos;RE DOING.
YOU KNOW, TO ME IN MY PERSONAL
LIFE MAYBE YOU DO THIS TOO.
I&apos;M SURE SOME OF YOU DO.
I CAN GUESS WHICH ONES I
CALCULATE MY PERSONAL
CARBON FOOTPRINT.
I KNOW THAT EVERY GALLON OF GAS
IS CREATED THIRTEEN POINT TWO
KG CO2 EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS.
SO I FELT LIKE AT ONE HUNDRED
FIFTY KILOGRAMS THAT REALLY
GIVES ME PAUSE.
YOU KNOW SO MANY CALORIES PER
PASSENGER MILE TRAVEL BY AIR
AND COACH.
YEAH I THOUGHT THAT&apos;S THREE
THOUSAND THAT&apos;S THREE METRIC
TONS OF I FLY TO SAN FRANCISCO
AND BACK THAT&apos;S GOING TO REALLY
SCREW UP MY PERSONAL
CARBON FOOTPRINT.
I JUST DON&apos;T FLY ANYMORE YOU
KNOW AND IF I DIDN&apos;T I WOULDN&apos;T
CARE AND I DIDN&apos;T FOR THE
LONGEST TIME SO OVERSIZE FIT
OBVIOUSLY PROVIDE THIS REPORTS
NOT EVEN TO UDC CONFIRMING
PROJECTS NOT JUST TO OTHERS BUT
THEY SHOULD ALSO BE MORE
QUANTITATIVE.
THEY TEND TO BE VERY
QUALITATIVE AND THEY CERTAINLY
HAVE THE STAFF VERY CAPABLE
OF DOING THAT.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, THEER YAGUR I&apos;M
DONE.
I GUESS YOU HAVE THE YOU HAVE
THE DISCRETION TO LET ME GO
LONGER.
&gt;&gt; BY THE WAY, AND THANK YOU.
I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY THAT I
AND THESE ARE VERY CAPABLE AND
SHE PUTS TOGETHER BRILLIANT
GREENHOUSE GAS INVENTORIES
ANNUALLY THAT I USE AS A
RESOURCE MANY OF HER
CALCULATIONS.
SO IF I CAN DO THIS AND THIS IS
OBVIOUSLY SOMETHING I NEED TO
BRING UP WITH THEM WITH YOU AND
I WILL BUT SOME DEVELOPERS ARE
VERY SOPHISTICATED ISSUES WITH
SARTORIUS AS YOU KNOW, BUT THEY
KNOW EXACTLY HOW MUCH ENERGY
THEY&apos;RE USING AND HOW MUCH
EMISSIONS THEY&apos;RE PUTTING OUT
EVEN THOUGH THEY DON&apos;T THEY
DON&apos;T DISCLOSE THAT THEY THEY
DID DISCLOSE THEIR ENERGY USE
INTENSITY OF THEIR BUILDING
WHICH IS ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER
SQUARE FOOT PER YEAR MUCH
HIGHER THAN I THOUGHT IT WAS.
SO THAT&apos;S ANOTHER FIGURE THAT
EITHER WE SHOULD THAT WE SHOULD
TRY TO PIN DEVELOPERS DOWN ON.
UM, THERE&apos;S A LOT WE CAN DO IN
THIS AREA AND THAT WE SHOULD DO
WE JUST NEED WE NEED MORE
INFORMATION.
IT MAY NOT IN THE END MAKE A
DIFFERENCE BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S THIS
ISN&apos;T ROCKET SCIENCE.
THIS IS QUANTITATIVE
INFORMATION THAT WE CAN GET
FROM OUR SIDE TO HELP US IN OUR
DECISION MAKING.
SO ANYWAY, THAT&apos;S ALL I REALLY
WANTED TO SAY.
I REALLY HOPE THAT YOUR WIFE
HIS IDEA IS PURSUED.
THANK YOU.
MR.
ARE THERE ANY CALLERS WHO HAVE
INDICATED AN INTEREST IN
SPEAKING.
&gt;&gt; NO.
ALL RIGHT THEN WE CAN MOVE ON
TO ITEM ELEVEN COMMISSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS.
I JOTTED THINGS DOWN BUT DOES
ANYBODY ELSE WANT TO SPEAK UP?
&gt;&gt; SO WHAT I HAVE WHAT I HAVE
IS THAT WE OUGHT TO HAVE A
DISCUSSION AND PROBABLY OUTSIDE
OF OUR SEE THAT GIVEN THIS
CONVERSATION FOR ONE PARTICULAR
LOOKING AT THE PARKING
FOOTPRINT, THE FORM BASE LIMIT
,THAT IS ONE THING.
I ALSO THINK IN THAT
CONVERSATION AND AS I ALLUDED
TO BEFORE, THERE IS A STUDENT
WHO DIDN&apos;T FIND ENOUGH PEOPLE
TO JOIN HER MASTER&apos;S PROJECT
THAT WOULD BE WORKING WITH THE
CITY TO HELP QUANTIFY TRADE
OFFS BETWEEN BETWEEN GREEN
SPACE HOUSING AND KIND OF SOLAR
.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I THINK ACTUALLY I
WROTE DOWN THE TIME FROM
TONIGHT&apos;S DISCUSSION WHERE I
THINK CAME UP IN THAT
CONVERSATION BUT I AS A POINT
OF INFORMATION FOR FOLKS THERE
WILL BE A VERY CAPABLE CS
MASTERS STUDENT WORKING ON THIS
SUMMER ON THAT TO THE POINT
THOUGH OF SPECIFICALLY
QUANTITATIVE ASSESSMENTS FROM
OSSI.
I MEAN THIS IS EXACTLY WHEN YOU
YOU KNOW, THE THE THE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY LABELS WHEN YOU GO
TO BUY AN APPLIANCE THAT&apos;S NOT
REQUIRING YOU TO DO ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; IT JUST HELPS YOU MAKE
INFORMED CHOICES.
AND SO I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, I
THINK THAT THERE&apos;S CERTAINLY
MERIT THERE AS WELL AND THOSE
ARE THE THINGS THAT I HAD ON MY
LIST.
&gt;&gt; WHAT ELSE DID I MISS?
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
CAN WE JUST SPECIFY WHAT WE&apos;RE
ASKING FOR OR DO WE WANT TO DO
THAT RIGHT NOW FOR MOSSI
BECAUSE I THINK IT WAS WE THREW
AROUND A LOT OF THINGS WHICH
ARE ALL VALUABLE AND SO YOU
CAN&apos;T SEE MR LEINERT RAISING
HIS HAND AND I&apos;M SURE HE HAS A
BRILLIANT IDEA NOT BRILLIANT I
WOULD OBSERVE THAT THE
COMMISSION SPENT AS MUCH TIME
IF NOT MORE THIS EVENING
TALKING ABOUT BUILDING
OPERATIONAL ASPECTS AS PLANNING
AND LAND USE ASPECTS THAT WHILE
THAT MAKES ME FEEL GREAT THAT
YOU HAVE A LOT OF CONFIDENCE IN
OUR REGULATIONS AS IT RELATES
TO USE AND AREA PLACEMENT AND
PARKING AND LANDSCAPING AND
STORMWATER
AND THE LIKE, IT
OBVIOUSLY WE&apos;VE HAD THIS
DISCUSSION QUITE A BIT THAT WE
DON&apos;T AND THIS RELATES TO
WHETHER OUR SITE PROVIDES A
REPORT WE DON&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING
TO MEASURE THAT AGAINST.
I WOULD SUGGEST MAYBE MAYBE
EVEN THIS NEXT WORKING SESSION
WE START HAVING A CONVERSATION
AS A COMMISSION AS TO WHAT ARE
THE THINGS THAT YOU WOULD LIKE
TO REQUIRE IN CODE IN THE
ZONING CODE FROM A
SUSTAINABILITY.
I THINK I HEAR THE CITY COUNCIL
HAS BEEN CLEAR AN ADOPTION
OF THE TWO ZERO POLICY.
IT&apos;S NOT A MASTER PLAN BUT IT&apos;S
A CLEAR DIRECTION.
THE CITY COUNCIL I HEAR IT AT
THIS TABLE A DESIRE FOR
IMPACTING PROJECTS AS IT
RELATES TO THEIR HEATING SOURCE
,THEIR UTILITY SOURCES.
THESE ARE NOT THINGS THAT ARE
IN OUR UDC.
I&apos;M NOT SITTING HERE SAYING
THAT TO DO THAT WE WILL THAT
THAT I THINK IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE
TO PUT ALL THINGS IN THE U.S.
BUT I SORT I AM SPECULATING
THAT IT&apos;S TIME FOR US AS A
COMMISSION TO START LOOKING AT
THE TWO ZERO GOALS AND THINK
ABOUT THE THINGS THAT WE DO
WANT TO REQUIRE IF WE COULD
REQUIRE EVERY NEW BUILDING HAS
TO BE NET ZERO CONSTRUCTED IN
THE CITY.
DO WE WANT OUR UDC TO SAY THAT
IF WE WANT TO REQUIRE NO
NATURAL GAS CONNECTION IN THE
CITY, DO WE WANT TO SAY THAT?
SO I SORT OF THINK THAT WE
SHOULD START HAVING A
CONVERSATION ABOUT MEASURABLE
THINGS THAT WE CAN PUT IN THERE
SO THAT WHEN USSI EVENTUALLY IS
DOING THOSE REPORTS IT IS A
STANDARD OF APPROVAL.
IT IS NOT A STANDARD OF HEY,
WOULDN&apos;T IT BE GREAT IF YOU
COULD DO THIS?
I THINK WE NEED TO HAVE THAT
CONVERSATION IF WE COULD.
WHAT DO WE WANT IT TO SAY?
I THINK WE JUST HAD THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT THIS ONE IS
TALK ONE IS IT IS IT IS TRYING
TO GET TO A VERY SPECIFIC
TYPOLOGY AND A LOT
OF TYPOLOGIES THAT ARE
HAPPENING IN THE WORLD
CONSTRUCTION WISE BOTH WON&apos;T
FIT INTO THAT.
AND SO WHAT DO WE WANT TO DO
THE SAME AS REGARDS TO
SUSTAINABILITY ASPECTS?
SO THAT&apos;S NOT A BRILLIANT IDEA
BUT MAYBE IT&apos;S A TIME WE HAVE
THAT CONVERSATION OR MAYBE YOU
STARTED HAVING THAT SOONER.
IT JUST I JUST I FEEL LIKE IT&apos;S
PENT UP IN THE COMMISSION AND
THE CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THESE
DEVELOPMENTS AND I THINK WE
NEED TO EVEN EVEN IF WE CAN&apos;T
INCLUDE EVERYTHING, WHAT ARE
THE WHAT ARE WHAT IS THE I
DON&apos;T KNOW THAT THERE&apos;S LOW
HANGING FRUIT BUT WHAT IS THE
EASIEST HANGING FRUIT TO
INCORPORATE AND I WOULD TIE IN
MANY OF THESE THINGS TOGETHER.
I WOULD OFFER THAT WE&apos;RE STILL
WE CAN STILL SCOPE OUT A BIT
OF KIND OF WHAT THE STUDENT IS
WORKING ON THIS SUMMER AND I
THINK THAT THAT&apos;S REALLY
HELPFUL BECAUSE I SIMILAR TO
THE CONVERSATION THAT WE HAD
ABOUT INCLUSIONARY ZONING, I
WORRY A BIT ABOUT UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES OF US REQUIRING
THINGS THAT DRIVES MAYBE SOME
USES WE DO WANT TO DRIVE TO THE
SUBURBS BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE
SUBURBAN USES BUT OTHER THINGS
THAT MAY THE THE THE YOU KNOW,
DON&apos;T LET THE PERFECT BE THE
ENEMY OF THE GOOD TO SOME
EXTENT.
AND SO I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT COULD KIND OF BE
WITHIN THE REMIT EXPLORING WHAT
SOME OF THOSE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES MIGHT BE.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD COMMISSIONER
APRON&apos;S OR SOLVAY RATHER.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW I KNOW YOU&apos;RE YEAH.
THEN COMMISSIONER EVEN THIS
MIGHT JUST BE A CLARIFICATION
AND NOT BE WORK BUT WITH THE
EVVY PARKING IF IT&apos;S A PHASED
PROJECT CAN PETITIONERS ELECT
WHEN AND WHERE TO PLACE IT OR
IS IT ALL REQUIRED TO BE PLACED
IN PHASE ONE OR PROPORTIONAL
BECAUSE THIS EVENING WAS A
LOOPHOLE THAT THEY JUST
CONCEDED TO INSTEAD OF A
REQUIREMENT SO BECAUSE NOT
SPECIFIC RIGHT NOW THE
CODE SAYS WHEN YOU&apos;RE THE
PROPOSED CODE THAT YOU JUST
ADVANCED THE CITY COUNCIL SAYS
WHEN YOU ARE ADDING PARKING
SPACES THEY HAVE TO MEET THESE
PERCENTAGES FOR PARKING.
&gt;&gt; SO I WOULD SAY TYPICALLY WE
HAVE REQUIRED PHASES TO STAND
ON THEIR OWN LIKE IF YOU WANT A
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY FOR
PHASE ONE, YOU HAVE TO HAVE ALL
THE AMENITIES FOR YOU THAT IS
INCORPORATED IN PHASE ONE FOR
THAT I DON&apos;T I GUESS I SO
INSERT THE CODE SILENT ON IT.
THERE MIGHT BE TIMES THAT
THAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT.
THERE MIGHT BE TIMES THAT THERE
MIGHT BE A BENEFIT BECAUSE
OF THE OVERALL ARRANGEMENT AND
DISTRIBUTION.
WE DON&apos;T WANT THAT YOU HAVE TO
DO 10 PERCENT IN PHASE ONE AND
10 PERCENT IN PHASE TWO OF A
TEN PHASE PROJECT.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW WE LOOK AT
THAT WHEN WE LOOK AT THE REST
OF THE PARKING STANDARDS THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO GO BACK TO IF WE
CAN JUST ADD THAT TO THE LIST,
GET ROUND TO PARKING NOW.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER ABRAN, THANK
YOU.
I JUST WAS GOING TO SPEAK IN
SUPPORT OF MR LEONARD&apos;S
PROPOSAL BECAUSE I THINK WE DO
SPEND A LOT OF TIME TALKING
ABOUT THINGS THAT ARE ACTUALLY
NOT WITHIN OUR JURISDICTION
THAT ARE WISHLISTS ARE OUR
PRINCIPLES AND VALUES BUT
ACTUALLY NOT RELATED TO
PLANNING AND LAND USE AND
ZONING.
BUT THERE ARE THINGS RELATED TO
THOSE THINGS THAT WE HAVE NOT
YET DISCUSSED AND COULD AND
SHOULD AND MAYBE EVEN WOULD BE
MORE IMPACTFUL BECAUSE
SOMETIMES IT DOES FEEL LIKE WE
WE THERE&apos;S A KIND
OF PERFORMANCE WE WE WE WE KIND
OF LIKE ASK THE PETITIONER TO
BEAR WITH US WHILE WE TELL THEM
ALL THESE THINGS THAT WE WISH
THAT ACTUALLY AT THE END OF THE
DAY WE VOTE YES BECAUSE EVEN IF
THEY DON&apos;T COMPLY WITH THOSE
THINGS BECAUSE NOT OUR
JURISDICTION.
SO IT&apos;S A KIND OF AWKWARD
POSITION TO BE IN AND I THINK
THAT FRUSTRATION IS WHAT MR
LENNON IS POINTING TO.
SO AS FAR AS I UNDERSTAND WE
COULD NOT WRITE INTO THE UDC
THAT BUILDINGS HAVE TO BE
ELECTRIC ELECTRIFIED BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE PREVENTED BY LAW FROM
DOING IT.
SO MAYBE WE SHOULD FOCUS ON THE
THINGS THAT WE CAN.
I&apos;M NOT SAYING WE SHOULDN&apos;T
MAKE OUR PRINCIPLES KNOWN.
WE STILL COULD COMMUNICATE AND
VOCALIZE OUR PREFERENCES AND
MAKE IT CLEAR THAT THAT&apos;S WHAT
WE WANT.
BUT I THINK THERE ARE OTHER
LEVERS WE SHOULD BE PULLING
THAT WE&apos;RE NOT.
SO I LIKE THAT IDEA.
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER DISH WE&apos;VE HAD
THIS WE&apos;VE GONE WE&apos;VE THIS IS
ANOTHER ITERATION AND I AM
ENTIRELY ON BOARD WITH THE IDEA
THAT WE SHOULD BE DOING THE
THINGS WE CAN DO.
BUT I THINK WHAT CAME UP IN OUR
DISCUSSION TONIGHT WITH THIS
PETITIONER WAS I THINK THE
DESIRE TO INFORM AND JUST SAY
DO YOU HE MAY KNOW NOTHING
ABOUT INDOOR AIR QUALITY LIKE
MOST PEOPLE DON&apos;T EVEN THINK
ABOUT THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THIS IS
SOMETHING WORTH OUR TIME EXCEPT
I DO KNOW THAT A LOT
OF PROJECTS AREN&apos;T GOING TO BE
GOING TO COUNCIL AND SO DOES
THAT MEAN THAT WE REALLY NEED
TO BE SPECIFIC ABOUT WHAT&apos;S
UNDER OUR PURVIEW OR DOES THAT
MEAN THAT THERE&apos;S A POSSIBLE
FOR US TO SAY BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW
IF I WAS I HAS TIME TO GIVE US
A REPORT FOR EVERYTHING WHERE
THERE&apos;S NO DISCRETION.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A LOT OF STAFF TIME
.
SO BUT I THINK THAT WHAT I
HEARD IS THE IMPULSE WHICH I
WHICH I THOUGHT WAS A VALUABLE
IMPULSE WAS JUST THE DESIRE TO
BE ABLE TO SAY YOU ARE TENDING
TO WANT TO DO IT THIS WAY
BECAUSE THIS IS WHAT YOU KNOW.
BUT THERE ARE THESE THINGS THAT
OTHER BUILDINGS ARE DOING THAT
ADD X PERCENT MAYBE FINANCIAL
COST TO A PROJECT BUT THAT IN A
CITY LIKE ANN ARBOR MAY GET YOU
A MARKET SHARE OR MAYBE A
RESPONSIBLE AND ETHICAL THING
TO DO AND LEAVE IT AT THAT.
YOU KNOW, JUST WE WANT TO
INFORM YOU AND WE FEEL LIKE WE
SHOULD DO THAT OR WE FEEL WE&apos;RE
GOING TO ARROGATE TO OURSELVES
THE PRIVILEGE OF DOING THAT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK WE SHOULD THINK THIS
THROUGH BECAUSE I DON&apos;T WANT US
TO KEEP HAVING THESE WISH-LIST
CONVERSATIONS.
&gt;&gt; I FEEL TIRED WHEN THE MOMENT
COMES FOR US TO ALL SAY HAVE
YOU THOUGHT ABOUT THIS?
&gt;&gt; AND THEY GO NO I&apos;M OK.
AND YET YOU KNOW AND AND AND
THESE ARE BUILDING CODE THINGS
THEY&apos;RE NOT THINGS WE CAN DO.
THEY CAN&apos;T BE IN OUR CODE .
THEY CAN&apos;T EVEN BE IN OUR
BUILDING CODE .
BUT WE ARE THE PLACE THAT IS
SIGNING OFF ON THESE SITE PLANS
AND THEN I AM GETTING EMAIL IN
MY MAILBOX SAYING YOU ARE A
HYPOCRITE AND I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
VOTE FOR YOUR SUSTAINABILITY.
MILLICH BECAUSE YOU DON&apos;T
ACTUALLY CARE BECAUSE YOU VOTED
FOR THIS IN THAT YOU KNOW AND
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE ANSWER
IS THERE AND I&apos;M HAPPY TO SAY
NARROW RATHER THAN BROADEN BUT
I WANTED TO JUST SAY WHAT I
THOUGHT I HEARD IN THE
SUGGESTION AND YOU KNOW,
SIMILARLY BASED ON RESEARCH
OF LAND USE AND RENEWABLES IN
TERMS OF HOW PEOPLE FEEL ABOUT
THE PLANNING PROCESS WHEN WE&apos;RE
TALKING ABOUT SITING LARGE
SCALE RENEWABLE PROJECT, THERE
ARE SOME THINGS THAT WE KNOW
ARE OUTSIDE OF THE PURVIEW OF A
PLANNING COMMISSION.
BUT WHEN MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THAT RATHER
THAN THEM THINKING THAT YOU&apos;RE
NOT LISTENING PARTICULAR
MEETING AGAIN WHY IT IS THAT
LIKE THIS IS AH THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT WE CARE ABOUT
BUT THESE ARE THE BOUNDS
OF WHAT WE HAVE ACTUALLY IS
HELPFUL IN THAT KIND
OF SITUATION WHEN WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT LARGE SCALE UTILITY
PROJECTS BECAUSE THEY RECOGNIZE
YOU&apos;RE HEARING THEM AND WE WELL
KNOW THAT WHILE THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE THAT REGULARLY WRITE US
LETTERS, OFTENTIMES SOMEBODY
JUST MAY BE WRITING A LETTER
ABOUT THE THING THAT&apos;S PROPOSED
BEHIND THEM AND SO THEY MAY
THIS MAY BE THE FIRST TIME THAT
THEY REALIZE THAT THIS IS NOT
IN OUR PURVIEW
.
AND SO I DO THINK LIKE I I
THINK WE OUGHT TO HAVE A
CONVERSATION.
BUT THE EDUCATION I THINK IS
NOT JUST TO THE PETITIONER.
IT&apos;S ALSO TO THE TO OTHER
INTERESTED COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO MAY BE TUNING IN FOR THE
VERY FIRST TIME OR MAY BE
JOINING US FOR THE VERY FIRST
TIME TO SAY WE HEAR YOU.
IT&apos;S NOT LIKE WE&apos;RE JUST
IGNORING BUT THIS IS THIS IS
WHAT IS WITHIN OUR DISCRETION.
&gt;&gt; SO COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, I THINK THAT&apos;S A
GOOD POINT.
&gt;&gt; HE&apos;S ALSO GOING TO
UNDERSCORE JUST I THINK WHAT I
HEARD FROM BOTH COMMISSIONER
WHITE AND FROM MR. GARBER WAS
LIKE THEN COMMISSIONER EVANS
AND I WERE TALKING ABOUT THIS
WHEN WE WERE ON OUR BREAK JUST
THIS NEED FOR THE EDUCATION
OF YOU LAND-USE PRACTITIONERS
THAT COME BEFORE US THAT MAYBE
I COULD ALSO SORT OF TELL FROM
THE PETITIONER TONIGHT LIKE HE
PROBABLY I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT HE&apos;S
GOING TO BE DOING.
I DON&apos;T THINK HE&apos;S THOUGHT
ABOUT THIS AT ALL BECAUSE IT IS
NOT THE WAY THAT HE&apos;S DEVELOPED
OTHER PROJECTS THAT HE&apos;S WORKED
ON AND THE ARCHITECT MAYBE
HASN&apos;T TALKED TO HIM ABOUT
BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION OR HE
DOESN&apos;T HAVE THE RIGHT
ENGINEERS LIKE I MEAN WE NEED A
FUNDAMENTAL SHIFT AND LIKE ALL
LANDY&apos;S PRACTITIONERS BUT I
WONDERING IF THERE&apos;S SOMETHING
THAT OAC HAS ALREADY OR COULD
CREATE THAT WOULD COME EARLY IN
A PROCESS WITH A PETITIONER
THAT PLANNING STAFF COULD USE
TO SAY LIKE HERE&apos;S A GUIDEBOOK
OR SOMETHING.
HERE&apos;S CONTACTS LIKE DEVELOPERS
IN ANN ARBOR OR CLOSE BY THAT
ARE LIKE CONSIDERING THESE
THINGS THAT YOU COULD TALK TO
ABOUT LIKE PRICING THIS OUT.
I JUST THINK THAT THERE&apos;S SO
MUCH STATUS QUO THAT PEOPLE AND
THEN THEY YOU KNOW, THEY&apos;VE
DONE SO MUCH WORK BY THE TIME
THEY COME HERE AND THEN WE&apos;RE
LIKE OH SOLAR PANELS OH
BUILDING ELECTRIC AND IT&apos;S LIKE
NOBODY SAID THIS TO ME BEFORE
OR NOBODY&apos;S REALLY GIVEN ME
LIKE LIKE MY ARCHITECT HASN&apos;T
SAID ANYTHING TO ME ABOUT THAT.
SO I THINK THERE REALLY IS THIS
DEEP NEED FOR THE EDUCATION
PIECE REALLY EARLY IN THE
PROCESS WITH A LOT OF THESE
PETITIONERS.
IF THERE&apos;S ANYTHING THAT WE
COULD HELP FACILITATE THE
CREATION OF THAT YOU KNOW, ONCE
YOU START WORKING WITH PLANNING
STAFF THAT GETS DISTRIBUTED
MORE BROADLY IN OUR COMMUNITY
SO THAT BEFORE YOU EVEN COME TO
THE CITY YOU&apos;VE SOMEHOW GOTTEN
THIS ARE LIKE ALL THE ENGINEERS
AND ALL THE ARCHITECTS IN THE
COMMUNITY LIKE HAVE THIS SORT
OF A RESOURCE OTHERWISE I DON&apos;T
KNOW.
I MEAN I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW ELSE
WE&apos;RE GOING TO REALLY LIKE
CHANGE THE WAY THAT PEOPLE ARE
BUILDING THINGS HERE.
THEY WILL JUST IF WE MAKE IT
TOO HARD THEY&apos;LL GO TO THE
COUNTRIES.
BUT I THINK LIKE PEOPLE ARE I&apos;M
HOPING THAT PEOPLE&apos;S VALUES ARE
SIMILAR ENOUGH TO OURS THAT
THEY WANT TO DO THE RIGHT
THING.
THEY JUST MAYBE DON&apos;T KNOW HOW
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE OPTIONS
ARE BECAUSE NOBODY HAS TOLD
THEM SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF THAT
SORT OF WAS I&apos;M SORRY BUT SOME
SORT OF LIKE EDUCATIONAL
RESOURCE THAT WE COULD TRY TO
HELP CREATE COULD BE SORT OF A
STARTING POINT FOR SOME
OF THIS.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS WHAT WE MAY BE
GETTING OURSELVES INTO MR
LENNON FOR A WORK SESSION NO, I
THINK IT JUST EMPHASIZES WHY
THIS IS WOULD BE A VALUABLE
CONVERSATION SO YOU KNOW, CITY
COUNCIL ACTUALLY DIRECTED, FOR
EXAMPLE, RESOURCES ABOUT
EMBODIED CARBON IN EXISTING
BUILDINGS.
&gt;&gt; SO WE HAVE BEEN DIRECTED TO
PUT SOMETHING ON OUR WEBSITE IS
THE MOST IMPORTANT AND
IMPORTANT THING THAT YOU CAN DO
IS USE AN EXISTING BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; DON&apos;T REPLACE IT WITH
SOMETHING ELSE THAT HAS IMPACTS
ABOUT WHAT YOU CAN ACCOMPLISH
ON THAT PARTICULAR SITE.
SOMETIMES THAT MIGHT BE A
REALLY VIABLE OPTION.
SOMETIMES IT MIGHT NOT BE A
VIABLE OPTION.
THAT RESEARCH DOESN&apos;T SAY THAT
YOU MUST OR YOU CAN&apos;T BUT
THAT&apos;S AN EXAMPLE OF MOVING IN
THAT DIRECTION TO THE TO THE
NOTION OF SORT OF A SCORECARD.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS A I DON&apos;T
PROFESS TO HAVE THE KNOWLEDGE
THIS IS A RAPIDLY EVOLVING
FIELD BUT I JUST WANT TO SHARE
THAT I HAVE HAD THOSE
CONVERSATIONS WITH OUR STAFF.
HOW CAN I PROVIDE LIKE THE WAY
I PRESENTED IT WAS I WOULD LIKE
TO PROVIDE WITH ALL DUE RESPECT
A DUMBED DOWN VERSION OF A
SUSTAINABILITY SCORE SO THAT IT
IS USED COMMISSIONERS IN THE
PUBLIC A QUICK SNAPSHOT SCORE
GRADE AS TO HOW THIS MIGHT
IMPACT AND THE ANSWER WAS IT&apos;S
COMPLICATED.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S COMPLICATED BY WHAT
NATURAL RESOURCES ARE THERE THE
METHOD OF CONSTRUCTION, THE
EXTENT OF CONSTRUCTION.
SO THERE REALLY ISN&apos;T THUS FAR
THERE REALLY ISN&apos;T THAT SORT
OF EASILY COMPARATIVE SCORECARD
SO SO THAT&apos;S WHY I THINK FIND
LIKE A CONVERSATION WE MIGHT
NOT WE MIGHT NOT GET TO
ANYTHING BUT FINDING A
CONVERSATION OF SOMETHING THAT
IS MEASURABLE THAT CAN BE
EVENTUALLY INCORPORATED INTO
OUR CODE THOSE ARE THE GREAT
INCREMENTAL STEPS THAT IS IT&apos;S
NOT THAT IT&apos;S NOT THIS DANCE
OF EDUCATION.
IT IS ANOTHER STANDARD THAT WE
CAN CLEARLY COMMUNICATE TO THE
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY THAT IF
YOU MEET THIS YOU SHALL BE
APPROVED PERIOD
.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I THINK THE
CONVERSATION IS HOW
ASPIRATIONAL AND HOW HOW
INCREMENTAL AND HOW
ASPIRATIONAL SHOULD THOSE
STANDARDS BE.
WHAT ARE THOSE STANDARDS?
I FEEL LIKE THERE IS A THERE&apos;S
A LATENT DESIRE OF THIS BOARD
TO MOVE IN THAT DIRECTION WITH
SOME MEASURE DOUBLE STANDARDS.
SO THAT MOVES PAST THAT AND SO
I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S TIME THAT WE
START EXPLORING THOSE.
MR. LEARNER, IS THIS FOR DO YOU
THINK THIS WILL BE NEXT WEEK&apos;S
DISCUSSION OR ARE WE GOING TO
DO IT IN A MONTH?
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T KNOW.
OK, MAYBE WE&apos;LL START IT NEXT
WEEK.
OK, I I RETAIN THE RIGHT TO
CHANGE MY MIND ALL COMMISSIONER
GIVE BRANDL I&apos;M JUST WONDERING
IF WE SHOULD INVITE PEOPLE TO
THIS DISCUSSION THAT NO MORE
THAN WE DO DEFINITELY.
AND AND I&apos;M NOT JUST THINKING
ABOUT THE OPPOSITE
SUSTAINABILITY BUT LIKE
DEVELOPERS THAT ARE EMBARKING
ON THIS I FEEL LIKE WOULD BE
REALLY IMPORTANT TO HAVE THAT
DISCUSSION TOO.
AND SO MAYBE THAT MEANS IT&apos;S A
MONTH FROM NOW OR MAYBE IT&apos;S
LIKE WE START IT START SORTING
OUT CHUNKS OF INFORMATION OR
WHATEVER SO THAT WE KNOW WHAT
WE HOW WE WANT TO BE EFFECTIVE
ON OTHER PEOPLE&apos;S TIME.
BUT I FEEL LIKE, YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE OUR OWN LIMITS FOR SURE
AND I HAVE A FEW NAMES OF SOME
PEOPLE THAT I THINK WOULD BE
HELPFUL.
OK, ANYTHING ELSE UNDER
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
ITEM TWELVE IS ADJOURNMENT
WOULD ANYONE LIKE TO MOVE THAT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DISH
ALL IN FAVOR THAT IS ALL OF THE
OH THAT IS ALL IN THE HANDS
OF I KNOW